The Gateway Experience®
Wave V‐Exploring
A Journey to Focus™ 15

A Gateway to Self‐Exploration
Voiced by Laurie Monroe
Exploring is dedicated to Robert A. Monroe, to all
who are committed to personal growth, and to the
evolution of humanity seven generations from you.

Comments from Bob Monroe regarding the Gateway Experience®
What can you expect from the Gateway Experience? As much or as little as you put into it. The exercises
provide you with a set of tools—how you use them and what you do with them is your responsibility.
Some discover themselves for the first time, and thus live more completely, more constructively. Others
reach levels of awareness so profound that only one such experience is enough for a lifetime. Still others
become seekers after truth and add on‐going adventure to their daily activity.
There is only one basis—that you seriously consider the Gateway
Affirmation at the least a possibility: that you are more than your
physical body, that you can and do exist in energy systems that are not
limited to time‐space, that you can and do communicate with
intelligence beyond your physical consciousness—call it what you will.
The Gateway Affirmation
I am more than my physical body. Because I am more than physical
matter, I deeply desire to Expand, to Experience; to Know, to
Understand; to Control, to Use such greater energies and energy
systems as may be beneficial and constructive to me and to those near and close to me. Also, I deeply
desire the help and cooperation, the assistance, the understanding of those individuals whose wisdom,
development, and experience are equal or greater than my own.

Cautions and Warnings: Please Read
The Gateway Experience is a system of training in self‐exploration and personal development. It is not a
form of psychotherapy, philosophy, religion, or medical diagnosis/treatment. It is a means to acquire
knowledge—the application and results thereof are solely the responsibility of the trainee.

While many of our products contribute to wellness, they are not intended to replace medical diagnosis
and treatment. DO NOT listen to Hemi‐Sync® while driving or operating heavy equipment, or with other
devices that may influence brain‐wave activity. If you have a tendency towards seizures, auditory
disorders, or adverse mental condition(s), DO NOT listen to Hemi‐Sync® without first consulting your
physician. In the unlikely event that you experience any unusual physical or mental discomfort,
immediately discontinue use.
All warranties whether express or implied, including warranties of merchantability and fitness for a
particular purpose, are disclaimed.

Wave V—Exploring
Each Wave and each exercise of Gateway Experience builds directly on preceding techniques and
information. As you work with this Wave, you may find it helpful to review the introduction and
Frequently Asked Questions in the Discovery manual.
In Wave V, you will be reacquainted with Focus 12, the state of expanded awareness. You will then have
the opportunity to enhance your intuitive abilities with two additional Focus 12 exercises. These
exercises will help you connect to the feeling or feelings associated with an intuitive knowing. They can
assist you in identifying and overcoming limiting beliefs or obstacles which may prevent you from
knowing and trusting your intuitive self.
Focus 12 is an ideal springboard for exploring higher states of consciousness. From this now familiar
state, you will be introduced to Focus 15, the “no time” state—the state of simply being. Hemi‐Sync®
signals will assist you as you expand your consciousness far beyond the limitations of your five physical
senses and connect with the source of your intuition. Following your introduction, you will have the
opportunity to experience Focus 15 as a powerful state of creation and manifestation before moving on
to the culmination of Wave V, a free flow Focus 15 exercise. This free flow experience will provide you
with an ideal inner landscape for further exploration of this extraordinary state.
We suggest you practice the verbal cues you learn in Wave V so you can repeat your experiences
without listening to the exercises. The more you do this, the easier it will become.

Wave V Exercises
Exploring #1—Advanced Focus 12
Focus 12, the state of expanded awareness, can serve as an ideal springboard for expanded
explorations. In this exercise you will return to Focus 12 to strengthen and reinforce your familiarity with

this valuable state. You are free to explore. You may use this opportunity to perceive with your
nonphysical senses, to establish new patterns for your life or to reopen channels of communications
with your nonphysical friends. Practice your nonverbal communication skills by giving and receiving
information.
Exploring #2—Discovering Intuition
In Exercise 2 you will be guided to use the Focus 12 state of expanded awareness as a natural
foundation for enhancing your intuitive abilities. You will learn to connect to the feeling or feelings
associated with an intuitive knowing. This feeling is your own unique and personal marker of your
intuition in action. You will also learn a verbal cue that you might use whenever you desire to know
something with great clarity. The more you exercise your intuitive abilities, the more you will come to
rely upon and trust this innate part of who you truly are.
Exploring #3—Exploring Intuition
Exercise 3 affords you the opportunity to use the Focus 12 state for further exploration of your intuitive
abilities. Hemi‐Sync® signals will assist you as you expand your consciousness far beyond the limitations
of the five physical senses. Be prepared to express your intent to understand and know more fully who
you are as an intuitive being as you connect with the source of your intuition. Ask for help in identifying
any limiting beliefs or obstacles which may prevent you from knowing and trusting your intuitive self.
You may then express your intent to release these limiting thoughts and beliefs. Be sure to express your
gratitude for the trust and confidence you have gained in your intuitive self before returning to physical
waking consciousness.
Exploring #4—Intro to Focus 15
From the now familiar Focus 12 you will be guided into another state of being, Focus 15, the state of “no
time,” where time does not exist for you. You can move into Focus 15 and return easily because your
energy body is not limited or controlled by time and space. To enhance your familiarity with the state of
“no time,” you will return to Focus 12 and then be guided back to Focus 15 before returning to full
waking consciousness.
Exploring #5—Mission 15 Creation and Manifestation
Focus 15 is a state of stillness, a state of simply being. In Exercise 5, you will explore Focus 15 as a
powerful state of creation and manifestation. From within the energy of Focus 15 you will be able to
access the “ALL THAT IS” and know that your creative abilities are put into action through your
intention. You will also learn a verbal cue that you may use whenever you desire to create a change or
manifest what is needed in your life.
Exploring #6 — Exploring Focus 15
By now you should be familiar with the stillness of Focus 15—the “no time” state—the state of simply
being. Exercise 6, the culmination of Wave V, presents you with a free flow opportunity for further
exploration of this extraordinary state. You are given free reign to explore the nature of intuition, to
experience the creative energy within you, or to commune with your true essence for guidance and

inspiration.

Looking Ahead
Wave VI—Odyssey (A Journey to Focus 21) guides you into an odyssey of self‐discovery. Wave VI
features high‐adventure exercises in Focus 21 (the bridge to other energy systems). Explore realms of
awareness that defy description in dimensions beyond physical time‐space reality in this episode of the
Gateway Experience.
Contact your local dealer or:
Monroe Products
P.O. Box 505, Lovingston, Virginia 22949
434‐263‐8692
FAX: 434‐263‐8699
Interstate@Hemi‐Sync.com
www.Hemi‐Sync.com

©2013, Monroe Products®, All Rights Reserved

