The Gateway Experience®
Wave IV—Adventure

Voiced by Robert A. Monroe
Comments from Bob Monroe regarding the Gateway Experience®
What can you expect from the Gateway Experience? As much or as little as you put into it. The exercises
provide you with a set of tools—how you use them and what you do with them is your responsibility.
Some discover themselves for the first time, and thus live more
completely, more constructively. Others reach levels of awareness so
profound that only one such experience is enough for a lifetime. Still
others become seekers after truth and add on‐going adventure to their
daily activity.
There is only one basis—that you seriously consider the Gateway
Affirmation at the least a possibility: that you are more than your
physical body, that you can and do exist in energy systems that are not
limited to time‐space, that you can and do communicate with
intelligence beyond your physical consciousness—call it what you will.
The Gateway Affirmation
I am more than my physical body. Because I am more than physical matter, I deeply desire to Expand, to
Experience; to Know, to Understand; to Control, to Use such greater energies and energy systems as
may be beneficial and constructive to me and to those near and close to me. Also, I deeply desire the
help and cooperation, the assistance, the understanding of those individuals whose wisdom,
development, and experience are equal or greater than my own.

Cautions and Warnings: Please Read
The Gateway Experience is a system of training in self‐exploration and personal development. It is not a
form of psychotherapy, philosophy, religion, or medical diagnosis/treatment. It is a means to acquire
knowledge—the application and results thereof are solely the responsibility of the trainee.

While many of our products contribute to wellness, they are not intended to replace medical diagnosis
and treatment. DO NOT listen to Hemi‐Sync® while driving or operating heavy equipment, or with other
devices that may influence brain‐wave activity. If you have a tendency towards seizures, auditory
disorders, or adverse mental condition(s), DO NOT listen to Hemi‐Sync® without first consulting your

physician. In the unlikely event that you experience any unusual physical or mental discomfort,
immediately discontinue use.
All warranties whether express or implied, including warranties of merchantability and fitness for a
particular purpose, are disclaimed..

Wave IV—Adventure
Each Wave and each exercise of Gateway Experience builds directly on preceding techniques and
information. As you work with this Wave, you may find it helpful to review the introduction and
Frequently Asked Questions in the Discovery manual.

Discovery helped you build a strong, comfortable foundation for nonphysical exploration in Focus™ 10.
Threshold taught you more tools for directing and controlling nonphysical energy in the energy state of
Focus 12. Freedom provided you with practice in separating your nonphysical from your physical body.
Adventure offers you personal direction and control of new experiences, new ideas, new capabilities,
and new exciting exploration.

Wave IV Exercises
Adventure #1— One Year Patterning
One Year Patterning requires your thoughtful prior consideration about exactly how and what you
desire to be in one year’s time. Use the same guidelines given for Threshold #3 as you follow the same
process. The differences are the longer time frame and, more importantly, your increased knowledge of
your ability to use the power of expanded consciousness. Be sure you really want what you pattern for,
pattern strongly, and let it go with trust and confidence and gratitude.
Adventure #2—Five Messages
Five Messages requires no prior action except, as usual, to approach the exercise with openness,
gratitude, and a sensitivity to your perceptions of any nature. Wait until after to analyze and interpret
your messages. Such “left brain” functions interfere with your synchronized Focus 12 state. Review the
guidelines for Threshold #2 and Freedom #4 for additional suggestions.
Adventure #3—Free Flow 12
After introducing you to a “beacon guidepost” as your personal reference point, this exercise supports
planned, systematic explorations wherever you desire. Deciding on a purpose (or destination) before
you begin helps you avoid drifting into a sleep or dream state. Seek information or guidance you desire,
and express gratitude for what you receive. As you repeat the exercise again and again, extend the
scope of your journeys.
During these self‐directed adventures, experiment creatively with any and all of the methods you have
learned. Remember: these valuable tools cannot serve you unless you take them out of your mental tool

box and use them. Roam far and free in perfect comfort, knowing that you will safely and surely return
to C‐1.
Adventure #4—NVC I
Nonverbal Communication (NVC) is not what we commonly understand as body language, but rather a
primary method of interaction in and among different realities and energy systems. It is total expression,
occurring within the mind and in mind‐to‐mind exchanges. You have encountered NVC in previous
Gateway Experience exercises and in the dream state: vibrations, light, action, emotion are a few
examples. Begin to build your NVC “vocabulary” with these and other nonphysical perceptions, together
with new meanings for familiar perceptions. Experiment with all your Gateway Experience tools and
methods of perception and practice repeatedly to develop confidence in your NVC ability.
Adventure #5—NVC II
Further practice to develop your NVC vocabulary leads to communicating your Affirmation nonverbally.
Then you use your expanded awareness to receive NVC from others. The more you strengthen your NVC
ability, the better you will learn from your Gateway experiences. Practice counts.
Adventure #6—Compoint 12
Compoint, an abbreviation for communications point, is a location you establish along the continuum of
consciousness. Actively engage in creating an environment that invites communication. Some examples
could be a high tech computer station to receive input from the mainframe, a lush garden with
comfortable benches overlooking a tranquil pond, or a cozy log cabin with overstuffed chairs for
cherished conversation with dear friends. Let it be appropriate for you.
Your growing NVC skills enable you to use the compoint to gather information, encounter other energy
systems, or simply observe. You develop more NVC vocabulary for reaching out, greeting, saying
goodbye and expressing gratitude. Because you can go to your compoint easily and surely whenever you
wish, it can serve as a convenient rendezvous with your nonphysical friends.

Looking Ahead
Wave V—Exploring is awaiting you when you are ready to continue your explorations. From the now
familiar state of Focus 12, you will be introduced to Focus 15, the “no time” state — the state of simply
being. Here, far beyond your five physical senses, you can connect with the source of your intuition
without verbal guidance.

Contact your local dealer or:
Monroe Products
P.O. Box 505, Lovingston, Virginia 22949
434‐263‐8692
FAX: 434‐263‐8699
Interstate@Hemi‐Sync.com
www.Hemi‐Sync.com

©2013, Monroe Products®, All Rights Reserved

