The Gateway Experience®
Wave III—Freedom

Voiced by Robert A. Monroe

Comments from Bob Monroe regarding the Gateway Experience®
What can you expect from the Gateway Experience? As much or as little as you put into it. The exercises
provide you with a set of tools—how you use them and what you do with them is your responsibility.
Some discover themselves for the first time, and thus live more
completely, more constructively. Others reach levels of awareness so
profound that only one such experience is enough for a lifetime. Still
others become seekers after truth and add on‐going adventure to their
daily activity.
There is only one basis—that you seriously consider the Gateway
Affirmation at the least a possibility: that you are more than your
physical body, that you can and do exist in energy systems that are not
limited to time‐space, that you can and do communicate with
intelligence beyond your physical consciousness—call it what you will.
The Gateway Affirmation
I am more than my physical body. Because I am more than physical matter, I deeply desire to Expand, to
Experience; to Know, to Understand; to Control, to Use such greater energies and energy systems as
may be beneficial and constructive to me and to those near and close to me. Also, I deeply desire the
help and cooperation, the assistance, the understanding of those individuals whose wisdom,
development, and experience are equal or greater than my own.
Cautions and Warnings: Please Read
The Gateway Experience is a system of training in self‐exploration and personal development. It is not a
form of psychotherapy, philosophy, religion, or medical diagnosis/treatment. It is a means to acquire
knowledge—the application and results thereof are solely the responsibility of the trainee.
While many of our products contribute to wellness, they are not intended to replace medical diagnosis
and treatment. DO NOT listen to Hemi‐Sync® while driving or operating heavy equipment, or with other
devices that may influence brain‐wave activity. If you have a tendency towards seizures, auditory
disorders, or adverse mental condition(s), DO NOT listen to Hemi‐Sync® without first consulting your
physician. In the unlikely event that you experience any unusual physical or mental discomfort,
immediately discontinue use.

All warranties whether express or implied, including warranties of merchantability and fitness for a
particular purpose, are disclaimed.

Wave III—Freedom
Each Wave and each exercise of Gateway Experience builds directly on preceding techniques and
information. Use of Freedom exercises before having completed Threshold is not recommended.
As you work with this Wave, you may find it helpful to review the Frequently Asked Questions in the
Discovery manual.
About OBEs — Before beginning these exercises, take a moment to conceptualize your experiences thus
far in terms of Robert Monroe’s Continuum of Consciousness. This continuum can be easily understood
by thinking of a radio dial; as you turn it, one station phases out and signals from the next begin to
emerge out of the static. Let’s consider a state of alert awareness, with your total consciousness paying
attention to the present physical reality, as one “station” on the dial. When you find yourself wondering
if you turned off the stove before leaving the house, you’re momentarily “tuning in” another station.
Daydreaming is yet another, as is the hypnogogic state on the borderline between wakefulness and
sleep. C‐1, Focus™ 10 and Focus 12 are arbitrary labels for certain points along the continuum.
As your daily life proves, you move back and forth along this continuum all the time: you sleep, you
wake, you daydream, etc. Hemi‐Sync® helps you shift your attention to a particular “station” or state of
consciousness. And even when you are picking up a nonphysical consciousness “station,” you may retain
awareness of your physical body. One illustration of this is the classic out‐of‐body experience in which
you “see” your physical body from an outside position.
You may perceive your nonphysical consciousness as housed in a “physical” body, as a sphere of light, as
free‐flowing energy, or... There are no rules, no norms, no standards against which you should measure
your own experience. As you become more and more proficient in experiencing your consciousness as
separate from the physical, the method of perception becomes quite unimportant and may change from
OBE to OBE. What remains important is: Any experience of your consciousness separate from the
physical body is an OBE, even though you may retain some awareness of your body lying in bed, or your
breathing, heart beat, etc.
About Fear — Some people have a strong desire to go out‐of‐body while at another level they are
frightened at the prospect. You’ve learned tools that can help deal with such fears. For example, put
them in your Box; add a calming, reassuring statement to your Affirmation; know that your REBAL
comes with you and keeps you safe and comfortable; let your EBT be a two‐lane highway for carrying
you away and returning you surely to your point of departure; repeat Discovery #4; with Threshold #2,
ask for guidance on how to best ease your fears.
Above all, let go of any expectation that you will have a particular kind of experience. Trust your greater
self to know what is right for you and reinforce that trust with a sense of gratitude for whatever

experience is awaiting you. Remember that you can always return safely to C‐1 by simply “thinking” the
number “1” and moving your fingers.
Practice — As you experiment with the different separation techniques on these Wave III exercises, you
may discover that one works better for you. Or you may find energy building to sudden separation as
you are simply relaxing, allowing Hemi‐Sync® to move you along the continuum. Then comes practice,
more practice, and still more practice.
In the beginning stages of developing OBE proficiency, you may find that thought becomes action; a
passing thought about a person or location may transport your nonphysical consciousness there. With
more experience, you will gain greater control. At that point, the adventure is totally up to you. You may
choose to explore the solar system, map the terrains between physical and nonphysical experience,
develop friendships with nonphysical entities, or simply fly over the nearest treetops. The possibilities
are limited only by who you are and how you wish to grow.

Wave III Exercises
Freedom #1—Lift Off
Center yourself in the “you” that is your nonphysical energy rather than in your physical body, and
practice until you are thoroughly familiar with the process. Surprisingly enough, you can help yourself
rise by “settling down.” Think about how it feels to go up in an elevator. Repeated practice gives you
assurance that you can return safely and easily and, once you know this, it is quite easy to move farther
than the exercise provides.
Freedom #2—Remote Viewing
Remote Viewing guides you through three experiments using your EBT to reach distant people and
places with your awareness. Listen to the exercise first while sitting up and without headphones to
understand the required involvement of someone with whom to verify the results. Distance is not a
factor; the person can be around the corner or thousands of miles away. Select a mutually convenient,
specific, hour‐long time period so you can make notes before you contact the other person.
For the first experiment, have your associate write six numbers on a card, place it inside a white
envelope, and lay the envelope on a cleared surface that you are familiar with in his/her home. For the
second, have the person place a white cotton ball in another location you are familiar with. Ensure that
the envelope and cotton ball will be standing alone, and that you are not informed ahead of time where
they will be located. In the third experiment you send a message to your associate, noting where he/she
is and what he/she is doing.
As you perform the experiment, notice how your perceptions work. Are you more apt to sense shapes,
colors, or textures? What leads you to describe the things you perceive in the way that you do? What is
your emotional experience as you are remote viewing?

Integrate remote viewing into your daily life as you continue to practice these techniques. Allow your
total self to “play” with and modify them. Over time, your capabilities will develop and strengthen.
Remember, there is no failure in developing psychic abilities. Learning what does not work for you is
equally valuable for your progress.
Freedom #3—Vectors
Vectors uses your REBAL to give you practice in going and returning with a sense of direction. While
perception involving nonphysical energy is not limited to ordinary notions about space, using your
physical body as a reference point is a good way to learn to establish control over your movements.
You are asked to imagine a clock face, with 12 always just above the top of your head. You first learn to
extend your perception around the face of the clock in a two‐dimensional, vertical plane, with 3 being
outside your left hip, 9 outside the right, and 6 just below your feet. In the next part of the exercise, you
rotate the clock face so that 3 is in front of your hips and 9 is behind. The instructions lead you in
exploring three‐dimensional space.
Notice the feelings associated with perceiving beyond your physical body. Detect any interesting or
unusual features of a particular vector, or changes in awareness associated with changes of position on
the clock. You may find one vector especially stimulating, even a source of information. As always, make
these techniques your own; experiment with them; establish and practice with additional reference
points.
The more you repeat this exercise, the more proficient you become in controlling movement.
Eventually, you will be able to use this learning in all your explorations.
Freedom #4—Five Questions
Five Questions leads you in asking: Who am I? Where and who was I before I entered this physical
existence? What is my purpose for this existence in physical matter reality? What action can I now take
to serve this purpose best? What is the most important message I can receive and understand at this
point in my existence?
You may find it useful to review the comments for Threshold #2 to remind you that the answers you
receive may not be verbal and may come at a later time. Keep in mind the various perceptual methods
you have been experiencing and open your awareness to kinesthetic sensations, emotions, a sense of
“knowing,” or images. Whether the responses come from your total self or from an external source, it’s
up to you to translate this nonverbal communication into words or visual representations that hold
meaning for you.
These questions are only a beginning. As you continue to practice this exercise you can substitute your
own and repeat any question for clarification or fuller understanding. Ask what you really want to know,
infuse your questions with this desire, and express gratitude for the guidance you will receive.

Freedom #5—Energy Food
Energy Food teaches you a method for restoring depleted energy in C‐1; it is an encoding of the process
rather than actual application. To know whether the encoding is accomplished or whether to repeat the
exercise, use the method shortly after each time you listen to the exercise. If you feel more energized,
you have achieved proficiency with another valuable tool for use in your daily life. Then move on to the
next exercise.
Freedom #6—First Stage Separation
First Stage Separation builds on previous exercises to take you farther in consciously controlling your
nonphysical energy. Practicing five different methods of dissociation from your physical body provides
the opportunity to discover that one is more comfortable for you, or to experiment with combining two
or more of these methods. With each one, you can return to the physical body by using the “Return to
C‐1” encoding.
Log‐rolling — Focus on rotating and rolling the nonphysical energy within your physical body as if an axis
runs through your body from your head to your feet. When you sense a release of “surface tension”
between your physical and nonphysical energies and you are rotating freely, stop the focus on rolling
and allow it to continue. Once the “out‐of‐phase” condition is comfortably established, you simply turn
over and move outward. Reorientation can be easily accomplished by rotating until your nonphysical
energy is in alignment with the physical. You may perceive something akin to a little “click,” and you are
reintegrated.
Pole — Using your feet as a pivotal point, you are directed to move your nonphysical energy slowly up
and out, head first, until you are in an upright position. When your energy feet are the only point of
contact, intent is sufficient to accomplish complete separation.
Backing away is simply that: you slowly back out and away from your physical body. Once this is
achieved, you can turn away and practice directing your movement with the techniques from the
Vectors exercise.
Flowing involves sending out your nonphysical energies through the top of your head in the form of a
cloud or fog or thin spray of gas. Once separated, this often reforms quite naturally into a replica of your
physical body. You can then “jet” away on your EBT, float off inside your REBAL, practice with your
vectors, or use any of the other tools you have learned.
Floating involves an emotional association with the concept of floating or soaring. As you contemplate
how pleasant it would be to float upward, like a cloud or a kite, your nonphysical energy responds to this
emotional wish. Once separation is achieved, you can gradually diminish the emotion so other parts of
your total self can direct your experience.
Repeated practice in a relaxed state, without expectations, is the best way to achieve comfort and
confidence in your ability to separate and return easily and surely. Think of learning to walk. When your

first attempt to stand erect as a child ended with a plop to the floor, did you give up and decide to spend
the rest of your life crawling? Of course not!

Looking Ahead
Wave IV—Adventure is ready for you as soon as you are ready for more adventuring. You’ll delve into
additional applications and development of your skills as you enjoy exciting experiences of sending and
receiving nonverbal communications (NVC).
Contact your local dealer or:
Monroe Products
P.O. Box 505, Lovingston, Virginia 22949
434‐263‐8692
FAX: 434‐263‐8699
Interstate@Hemi‐Sync.com
www.Hemi‐Sync.com
©2013, Monroe Products®, All Rights Reserved

