The Gateway Experience®
Wave II—Threshold

Voiced by Robert A. Monroe

Comments from Bob Monroe regarding the Gateway Experience®
What can you expect from the Gateway Experience? As much or as little as you put into it. The exercises
provide you with a set of tools—how you use them and what you do with them is your responsibility.
Some discover themselves for the first time, and thus live more
completely, more constructively. Others reach levels of awareness so
profound that only one such experience is enough for a lifetime. Still
others become seekers after truth and add on‐going adventure to their
daily activity.
There is only one basis—that you seriously consider the Gateway
Affirmation at the least a possibility: that you are more than your
physical body, that you can and do exist in energy systems that are not
limited to time‐space, that you can and do communicate with
intelligence beyond your physical consciousness—call it what you will.
The Gateway Affirmation
I am more than my physical body. Because I am more than physical matter, I deeply desire to Expand, to
Experience; to Know, to Understand; to Control, to Use such greater energies and energy systems as
may be beneficial and constructive to me and to those near and close to me. Also, I deeply desire the
help and cooperation, the assistance, the understanding of those individuals whose wisdom,
development, and experience are equal or greater than my own.
What Is Hemi‐Sync®?
Hemi‐Sync® is a patented, scientifically and clinically proven audio‐guidance technology refined with 50
years of research. Researchers learned that specific sound patterns could lead the brain to various states
of consciousness ranging from deep relaxation or sleep to expanded awareness and other extraordinary
states.
The audio‐guidance process works through the generation of complex, multilayered audio signals, which
act together to create a resonance that is reflected in unique brain‐wave forms characteristic of specific
states of consciousness. The result is a focused, whole‐brain state known as hemispheric
synchronization, or Hemi‐Sync®, where the left and right hemispheres are working together in a state of

coherence. Different Hemi‐Sync® signals are used to facilitate deep relaxation, focused attention, or
other desired states. As an analogy, lasers produce focused, coherent light. Hemi‐Sync® produces a
focused, coherent mind, which is an optimal condition for improving human performance.
Music, verbal guidance, or subtle sound effects are combined with Hemi‐Sync® signals to strengthen
their effectiveness. These recordings contain no subliminal messages. You are always in control.
Cautions and Warnings: Please Read
The Gateway Experience is a system of training in self‐exploration and personal development. It is not a
form of psychotherapy, philosophy, religion, or medical diagnosis/treatment. It is a means to acquire
knowledge—the application and results thereof are solely the responsibility of the trainee.

While many of our products contribute to wellness, they are not intended to replace medical diagnosis
and treatment. DO NOT listen to Hemi‐Sync® while driving or operating heavy equipment, or with other
devices that may influence brain‐wave activity. If you have a tendency towards seizures, auditory
disorders, or adverse mental condition(s), DO NOT listen to Hemi‐Sync® without first consulting your
physician. In the unlikely event that you experience any unusual physical or mental discomfort,
immediately discontinue use.
All warranties whether express or implied, including warranties of merchantability and fitness for a
particular purpose, are disclaimed..

Wave II—Threshold
Each Wave and each exercise of Gateway Experience builds directly on preceding techniques and
information. Use of Threshold exercises before having completed Discovery is not recommended.
As you work with this Wave, you may find it helpful to review the introduction and Frequently Asked
Questions in the Discovery manual.
Focus™ 12—Overview
The high energy state and expanded awareness of this focus level enable you to become more conscious
of inner resources and guidance. As you continue to use what you learned in Focus 10, you may well find
entirely new experiences.
Rarely is nonphysical energy perceived in the same way we perceive in our physical waking state. Be
receptive to subtle nuances of kinesthetic, auditory, or visual experiences. You may sense a “knowing,” a
telepathic comprehension that can be later translated into words. With trust, patience, and practice,
you will learn to perceive more clearly. Sometimes this happens slowly, step by step; sometimes
dramatically and suddenly, like water breaking through a dam. Let go of preconceived notions about
how these exercises “should” unfold for you. Place them in your Box at the beginning of an exercise or
at any time they intrude. This opens you to a fuller and richer range of possibilities in your exploration.

Wave II Exercises
Threshold #1—Introduction to Focus 12
Simply relax as you are guided from familiar Focus 10 to Focus 12, and calmly observe any differences.
Effort and analysis are counterproductive. With repeated experience, the distinctions become more
pronounced and you come to appreciate Focus 12 as a powerful and empowering state which readily
lends itself to a wide diversity of purposes.

Threshold #2—Problem Solving
Problem Solving begins your use of Focus 12 energy for its many practical applications. Place your
question or problem in the center of your consciousness, however you perceive this. Then direct it
outward to your total awareness, release it, and wait for the response.
Answers sometimes come during the exercise, and may come in many forms. Among other possibilities
you may perceive symbols, abstract images, or colors; “hear” thoughts in your mind; sense subtle
changes in energy; experience chills, heat, or tingling; notice shifts in your feelings or level of emotional
arousal; or suddenly have a clear “knowing.”
If answers do not come as you listen to the exercise, take it as an invitation to heighten your sensitivities
as you move through your daily activities. Open your perception, for instance, to the conversations of
others, passages in books, synchronicities, and the multitude of wondrous ways in which guidance may
reveal itself.
Problem solving in Focus 12 is facilitated by the sincerity of your desire to receive a response, the
intensity of your emotion, and the clarity of your questions. Expressing gratitude as you release your
question is also important. This acknowledges your trust in the process and amplifies the entire exercise.
Threshold #3—One Month Patterning
One Month Patterning is very powerful for taking charge of your life. Based on the principle that we
become what we think, the energy of Focus 12 offers this process a speed and intensity in the
manifesting of thought not generally available in ordinary consciousness.
Think, feel or imagine the physical, mental or emotional pattern you desire in your life. Just as you did in
the previous exercise, place it in the center of your consciousness and then release it. A sense of ease
and detachment about the pattern lets you know that you have, indeed, released it.
Be clear about what you want. For example, do you want a new house, or to be happy where you live?
To lose 10 pounds or to feel better about yourself? Pattern only in the present tense, for example, “I am
now receiving...” Use “I” in your patterning statement and perceive yourself as an active part of the
pattern. Pattern only for yourself.
Be specific; the more detail in your pattern, the more likely you are to get what you want. Ask only for

what you really want, because you’ll probably get exactly what you ask for. Put emotion and conviction
into your practice to vitalize and strengthen your intention. Then ask that your pattern work only for the
good of your total self and simply let go of attachment to the result.
Although a pattern set in Focus 12 can be changed or canceled in Focus 12, don’t keep checking or
changing it because of fear or doubt. You wouldn’t dig up a seed to see how it’s growing, would you?
Start with small, reasonable patterns. If you pattern for $50 and prove to yourself it works, later
patterns will come more easily.

Don’t specify how your request will be fulfilled. Let your total self decide and direct the method. Though
the exercise refers to “one‐month patterning,” you can request that patterns be fulfilled in any time
frame: a week, a year, by your birthday, etc. Or simply release the pattern to be fulfilled in its own time.
Threshold #4—Color Breathing
Color Breathing uses the resonance of colors to develop your ability in directing physical and
nonphysical energy. Sound, vibration, and other sensations are as valid as visualization for the mental
perception of color. One man, blind since birth, experienced different colors as having unique textures.
The exercise guides you through learning to use the following colors: green for reducing excess or
harmful emotional energy; red for increasing physical strength, speed and coordination; purple for
restoring and normalizing your physical condition.
It’s important to end this process each time you practice by perceiving your body as well, whole and
perfect. You won’t want to energize any condition less than the ideal. As you become familiar with this
technique, feel free to experiment with other colors and to develop other purposes for yourself.
Threshold #5—Energy Bar Tool (EBT)
Energy Bar Tool is an extremely valuable and highly versatile tool for gathering and directing nonphysical
energies. History and mythology abound with “power sticks” that link human and spiritual energies,
ranging from the staff that Moses turned into a serpent to the scepters that symbolize the power of
kings and queens to the sabers of light that link the heroes of Star Wars to “The Force.” While moving
through the exercise, focus on finding or creating your own very personal EBT, one that shares your
energy and holds significance for you.
However vague your EBT may seem at first, continue practicing and allow it to develop. Your hands may
become your EBT, rather than something external to you. You may sense the increasingly charged
vibration throughout your body, or as localized, or as moving and spreading as intensity builds. Your EBT
may become a roadway that leads you to further explorations. It can be used as a beacon to attract
guidance or other intelligence, a vehicle for space travel, or a comforting symbol of safety and security.
The forms and uses of your EBT are truly limitless. Practice and experiment, knowing that its power is
reciprocal: as you recharge it, it recharges you. Keep your EBT where it is always available to you and

creatively use it in your daily life as well as in your Hemi‐Sync exercises. As with all the tools you learn in
the Gateway Experience, it’s up to you to take it out of the tool box and use it.
Threshold #6 — Living Body Map (LBM)
Since maps are an objective representation of territory, the underlying concept of the LBM supports the
perspective and detachment useful in healing. You have undoubtedly recognized how the progressive
nature of Gateway Experience uses previous learning as your adventure proceeds. In this exercise for
influencing physical body energy, you learn a new tool while using your EBT.
You are first verbally guided to create a white mental outline around your physical body. This “map”
represents a composite of your entire physical system. Then you change the outline’s color to red,
representing blood circulation; then blue for your nervous system; yellow for the organs of your
glandular system; orange for your muscle and bone structure. As the exercise proceeds, you learn to use
the LBM to identify where healing energy is needed. Then, with your EBT, you are guided to direct
purple healing energy to those parts of your physical body.
Remember that visualizing is not necessary for working with energy. To “think” or feel or sense a color
or image is to create it. As you follow the instructions, consider this as an opportunity to “play” with the
shape and form of your EBT. The verbal guidance provides a structure, but you need not adhere to it in a
rigid fashion. We encourage you to experiment and be creative with all the tools, to make them yours,
to be open to fresh insight about what works best for you.

Looking Ahead
Wave III—Freedom is awaiting you as soon as you feel ready to move on. The exercises on Wave III give
you a sense of ease and security as you delve further into nonphysical experience. You are introduced to
the Continuum of Consciousness and methods for practicing OBEs and remote viewing. Happy
adventures!
Contact your local dealer or:
Monroe Products
P.O. Box 505, Lovingston, Virginia 22949
434‐263‐8692
FAX: 434‐263‐8699
Interstate@Hemi‐Sync.com
www.Hemi‐Sync.com
©2013, Monroe Products®, All Rights Reserved

