odyssey CD manual 2015

The Gateway Experience®
Wave VI—Odyssey
A Journey to Focus™ 21

A Gateway to Self-Exploration
Voiced by A. J. Honeycutt

Odyssey is dedicated to Robert A. Monroe,
to all who are committed to personal growth,
and to the evolution of humanity
seven generations from you.

®

© 2015, Monroe Products®, All Rights Reserved
1

odyssey CD manual 2015

Comments from Bob Monroe
regarding the Gateway Experience
What can you expect from the Gateway
Experience? As much or as little as you put
into it. The exercises provide you with a set of
tools—how you use them and what you do with
them is your responsibility. Some discover
themselves for the first time, and thus live
more completely, more constructively. Others
reach levels of awareness so profound that only one such experience
is enough for a lifetime. Still others become seekers after truth and
add on-going adventure to their daily activity.
There is only one basis—that you seriously consider the Gateway
Affirmation at the least a possibility: that you are more than your
physical body, that you can and do exist in energy systems that are
not limited to time-space, that you can and do communicate with
intelligence beyond your physical consciousness—call it what you
will.

The Gateway Affirmation
I am more than my physical body. Because I am more than physical
matter, I deeply desire to Expand, to Experience; to Know, to
Understand; to Control, to Use such greater energies and energy systems as may be beneficial and constructive to me and to those near
2

odyssey CD manual 2015

and close to me. Also, I deeply desire the help and cooperation, the
assistance, the understanding of those individuals whose wisdom,
development, and experience are equal or greater than my own.
Cautions and Warnings: Please Read
The Gateway Experience is a system of training in self-exploration
and personal development. It is not a form of psychotherapy, philosophy, religion, or medical diagnosis/treatment. It is a means to acquire
knowledge—the application and results thereof are solely the responsibility of the trainee.
While many of our products contribute to wellness, they are not
intended to replace medical diagnosis and treatment. DO NOT listen to Hemi-Sync® while driving or operating heavy equipment, or
with other devices that may influence brain-wave activity. If you
have a tendency towards seizures, auditory disorders, or adverse
mental condition(s), DO NOT listen to Hemi-Sync® without first
consulting your physician. In the unlikely event that you experience
any unusual physical or mental discomfort, immediately discontinue use. ALL WARRANTIES WHETHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED,
INCLUDING WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, ARE DISCLAIMED.

Wave VI — Odyssey
In 1957 Robert Monroe began having out-of-body experiences that
altered his life forever. The first of his OBEs initiated a long series
3

odyssey CD manual 2015

of explorations into the limitlessness of human consciousness. The
documentation of these first experiences became what is now
known as the "classic OBE," in which a person actually sees his/her
body and perceives his/her consciousness as clearly separate from
the physical body.
Although Bob's experiences were both dramatic and life changing,
it soon became apparent that the OBE phenomenon was just the
tip of the iceberg. As he grew more comfortable in exploring altered
states of consciousness, Bob realized that his experiences in other
locales (the physical world around us) had served to trigger his
innate curiosity. His keen sense of the rational and his curious
nature would subsequently give birth to a more complete understanding of his OBE adventures.
In time, Bob's explorations developed a level of maturity that
required the coining of a new term to more accurately describe his
experiences. He had come to understand that "outer space" and
"inner space" are one; therefore, the concept of going "out of body"
no longer applied. In practice, Bob had learned that he could project
a portion of his consciousness "there" while retaining a portion of
consciousness within the physical body. His discovery meant that consciousness transcended the physical boundaries of time and space.
Thus, the term "out of body" was simply too limiting. “Phasing” is the
term he introduced to encompass these new realizations.

4

odyssey CD manual 2015

All of us know the meaning of phasing through personal experience. We merely take the phenomenon for granted. For example, as
you continue to read you might become aware of the position of
your physical body. You may simultaneously be aware of your surroundings, including such variables as room temperature, sounds
and smells, even the intensity of available light. Perhaps you are
even thinking about what you will experience as you listen to Wave
VI exercises—all while you are reading and integrating the words
on this page. Your ability to do so is simply your consciousness
phasing in and out of multiple levels of awareness.
Your consciousness can and does operate simultaneously in multiple
levels of awareness. It may be directed toward the past, the present,
or the future. It may be focused in this reality or others. You alone
are responsible for how you choose to focus your conscious awareness. The concept of phasing one's consciousness can explain all paranormal or psychic phenomena from Lucid Dreaming or Remote
Viewing to Near Death Experiences. Your ability to phase is so inherent that it may have escaped your notice, yet the potential applications for this remarkable ability are far-reaching.
The purpose of Wave VI is to assist you in applying this natural
ability. The beginning exercises take place in Focus 12, a state of
expanded awareness. These exercises are designed and scripted
directly from Bob's original explorations in what he then called the
out-of-body state. In the process of working with these exercises,
5

odyssey CD manual 2015

you will become familiar with the "second body." The second body
(also referred to as the energy body) is actually the field of energy
that surrounds the physical body.
With practice, you will learn how to expand your energy body, moving it progressively away from the location of your physical body.
You will remember how to manipulate and control your energy
body through the projection (or phasing) of your consciousness.
After you become familiar with the vibrations of your second body,
you will have the opportunity to explore the far reaches of physical
reality.
Trust that your experiences are exactly as they should be for you at the
time. Your heartfelt appreciation is an appropriate means to acknowledge any assistance given you. It is, therefore, recommended that you
take time to express your gratitude following each exercise.
The final exercises of Wave VI are designed to guide you beyond the
boundaries of physical reality. You will journey beyond the bridge
that connects physical time-space reality with other dimensions
and other levels of awareness. Focus 21 is the bridge to other states
of expanded awareness. At this point, you will be a true explorer,
moving into realms of awareness we will not attempt to specify
here. Indeed, such realms are often indescribable. Those who have
traveled this path frequently return to physical reality with few, if
any, words to recount their experiences. As Bob would say, "Now
6

odyssey CD manual 2015

that you have the tools, find out for yourself."
Bob was also fond of saying "Only you can change you." It is the significance and meaning that you give to your experiences that will
help you achieve personal growth. Trust yourself throughout these
exercises and know that a greater part of you is always there to help
and assist you.
It is important that you experience each exercise in succession,
building directly on the tools and techniques learned in the previous exercise. The goal is to practice what you learn so you can
repeat the experience effectively without listening to the exercise.
The more you do this, the easier it will become.
Use your intentions and willingness to explore to assist you in transcending limiting beliefs. It is our hope that you might come to know
you are more than your physical body.
We appreciate your dedication to personal growth and thank you for
your continued support of the Gateway Experience. As always, we
urge you to keep a journal of your explorations.

Wave VI Exercises
Odyssey 1—Sensing
Exercise 1 will reacquaint you with Focus 12. While in Focus 12,
you will be introduced to your energy body (second body) as a field
7

odyssey CD manual 2015

of energy surrounding your physical body. You may equate this second body to the life force that animates the physical body or you
may choose to refer to it as your etheric body, subtle body, or light
body. Call it what you will, this energy field is the same, vibrating
and alive—an extension of your physical body. Exercise 1 will
assist you in learning to control your energy body.
Odyssey 2—Expansion
Exercise 2 will enable you to begin a greater exploration through
the expansion of your energy body in Focus 12. This is accomplished by speeding up the vibrations in your energy body and
expanding it outward, like a large bubble surrounding your physical body. Once fully expanded, you will move your awareness
toward the far reaches of your energy body; becoming lighter as you
move farther from the confines of your physical body.

Odyssey 3—Point of Departure
With practice, you will have become comfortable and proficient in
moving your consciousness within an expanded energy body. Now
you are ready for take-off. Once again you will be led to Focus 12,
where you will move your consciousness into your energy body and
rotate it 180 degrees. This technique may seem familiar from earlier exercises in the Gateway Experience. This exercise, however,
has a very different starting point—your energy body—which is
vibrating at a very high speed. The rotation may also seem different. For some, the experience may appear to be like a very slow
8

odyssey CD manual 2015

movement in time and space; for others, a shift in awareness, like
having eyes in the back of your head. You may actually see your
own body. It is best to suspend expectations. Whatever your experience, your goal during Exercise 3 is to project your consciousness
out of phase with your physical body.
If you have difficulty with this exercise, don't despair. Please know that
not everyone will have a conscious out-of-body experience. It takes a lot
of practice for most, and many of us have hidden fears that hold us back.
Also, if you try too hard for an OBE, the intense effort can become the
very distraction that holds you back. Try to be nonchalant about OBEs.
They are just a small part of the process of self-exploration and personal
growth.

Odyssey 4—Nonphysical Friends
We encourage all who participate in our in-home programs to be
open to the idea of asking for and receiving assistance. Our enthusiasm for doing so originates from our early experiences with the
Explorer sessions. During these sessions, it became apparent that
our Explorers were not alone; rather, they had an abundance of help.
"Helpers in energetic form" would typically position themselves two
on each side of the Explorer. These helpers might assist the Explorer
in leaving his/her physical body or contribute otherwise with the purpose of a session. The particulars of how these nonphysical friends
were helping were not always obvious, but their benevolent intentions were remarkably clear. Who are these nonphysical friends? We
9

odyssey CD manual 2015

prefer that you decide for yourself. Exercise 4 is designed so you
might establish trust through direct personal contact.

Odyssey 5—Intro to Focus 21
Exercise 5 may be your first conscious experience in Focus 21 (the
bridge to other energy systems). As previously mentioned, Focus 21
is an extraordinary state of awareness that was previously reserved
for the Institute's residential programs. As you relax into this exercise, specialized Hemi-Sync® signals and verbal guidance will lead
you to Focus 21. Carefully observe the subtle changes in vibrations
or feelings of movement within your body as you are verbally guided
from Focus 12 to Focus 21, transitioning through the various states
of consciousness as you choose.

Odyssey 6 — Free Flow Journey in Focus 21
This exercise is the culmination of all your previous work and is
brand-new territory for your exploration. Again, staying focused and
aware is important. You will move to Focus 21 directly from 12 by
simply projecting your consciousness and guidance to the light of
Focus 21. There, you will once again be encouraged to ask for assistance and guidance from those whose wisdom, development, and
experience are equal to or greater than your own. No matter how
many times you participate in this exercise, you will never exhaust
its limitless possibilities for rich and abundantly rewarding journeys.
Monroe Products u P.O. Box 505 u Lovingston, VA 22949
434-263-8692 u Interstate@hemi-sync.com u www.hemi-sync.com
10

