WAVE VII
VOYAGER

THE GATEWAY EXPERIENCE®
WAVE VII—VOYAGER
A Journey to Focus™ 27

Voiced by A.J. Honeycutt

Voyager is dedicated to Robert A. Monroe,
to all who are committed to personal growth,
and to the evolution of humanity
seven generations from you.

©2019, Hemi-Sync®, All Rights Reserved
1

Comments from Bob Monroe
regarding the Gateway Experience
What can you expect from The Gateway
Experience? As much or as little as you put
into it. The exercises provide you with a set of
tools—how you use them and what you do
with them is your responsibility. Some discover themselves for the first time, and thus live
more completely, more constructively. Others
reach levels of awareness so profound that only one such experience
is enough for a lifetime. Still others become seekers after truth and
add on-going adventure to their daily activity.
There is only one basis—that you seriously consider the Gateway
Affirmation at the least a possibility: that you are more than your
physical body, that you can and do exist in energy systems that are not
limited to time-space, that you can and do communicate with intelligence beyond your physical consciousness—call it what you will.

The Gateway Affirmation
I am more than my physical body. Because I am more than physical
matter, I deeply desire to Expand, to Experience; to Know, to
Understand; to Control, to Use such greater energies and energy systems as may be beneficial and constructive to me and to those near
and close to me. Also, I deeply desire the help and cooperation, the
2

assistance, the understanding of those individuals whose wisdom,
development, and experience are equal to or greater than my own.

Cautions and Warnings: Please Read

The Gateway Experience is a system of training in self-exploration
and personal development. It is not a form of psychotherapy, philosophy, religion, or medical diagnosis/treatment. It is a means to acquire
knowledge—the application and results thereof are solely the responsibility of the trainee.
While many of our products contribute to wellness, they are not
intended to replace medical diagnosis and treatment. DO NOT listen
to Hemi-Sync® while driving or operating heavy equipment, or with
other devices that may influence brain-wave activity. If you have a
tendency towards seizures, auditory disorders, or adverse mental condition(s), DO NOT listen to Hemi-Sync® without first consulting your
physician. In the unlikely event that you experience any unusual
physical or mental discomfort, immediately discontinue use.
ALL WARRANTIES WHETHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE, ARE DISCLAIMED.

Wave VII—Voyager
The purpose of Wave VII is to be of service to self and others. You
will be introduced and operate within very deep states of awareness
associated with the afterlife state: Focus 23 through Focus 27. From
3

these unique levels contact is made with individuals who have died
physically but, for various reasons, remain “static”—unable to
detach completely from the earth energy systems. One stated objective is to rescue or retrieve these individuals, guiding them beyond
the earth experience to a “reception center” (Focus 27) where they
can rest, review their life experiences, and consider their next evolutionary steps.
You will first begin by exploring your Total Self in Focus 21 with the
aid of your Inner Helper. This allows you to set the groundwork for
moving into and working in these higher Focus levels.
Trust that your experiences are exactly as they should be for you at
this time. Your heartfelt appreciation is an appropriate means to
acknowledge any assistance given you. It is, therefore, recommended
that you take time to express your gratitude following each exercise.
Trust yourself throughout these exercises and know that a greater
part of you is always there to help and assist you.
It is important that you experience each exercise in succession,
building directly on the tools and techniques learned in the previous
exercise. The goal is to practice what you learn so you can repeat the
experience effectively without listening to the exercise. The more
you do this, the easier it will become.

4

Use your intentions and willingness to explore to assist you in transcending limiting beliefs. It is our hope that you might come to know
you are more than your physical body.
We appreciate your dedication to personal growth and thank you for
your continued support of The Gateway Experience. As always,
we urge you to keep a journal of your explorations.

Wave VII Exercises
Voyager 1—Explore Total Self
The purpose of this exercise is to gain a better understanding of
your Total Self. You will explore your purpose for living this physical life with the help of your Inner Helper—the one who is your closest friend and ally, who knows and understands you better than you
realize.
You will be guided to Focus 21, the bridge to other reality systems.
From here you will connect with your Inner Helper, establishing
communication so that you may ask a series of questions and
receive information regarding your Earth life.
Voyager 2—Intro to Focus 23
This may be your first conscious experience in Focus 23, the transitional reality of those who have just completed a physical life, but
are somehow unable to move on.
5

You will be instructed to move to Focus 21 by the method you have
learned. As you relax into this exercise, special Hemi-Sync® signals
and verbal guidance will lead you to Focus 23. Carefully observe the
subtle changes in vibrations or feelings of movement within your
body as you move to Focus 23, transitioning through the various
states of consciousness as you choose.
Once in Focus 23, you will be instructed to observe and perceive the
various beings and their states of consciousness. They may exhibit
emotions of bewilderment, shock, and confusion. You will remain
calm and confident as you are always in full control.
Become familiar with all you observe, as this is the point of the
many you can help. However, you will only be an observer and are
not to engage with any of these beings at this time. If approached by
someone, simply offer love and ask their guides to help them. You
will have the opportunity to return to this area and be of assistance
in Exercise 5.
Voyager 3—Intro to Focus 25
In this exercise, you will be introduced to Focus 25, the belief system
territories. This area is occupied by groups of non-physical humans
who have, through thousands of years, accepted and subscribed to
various premises and concepts.
You are instructed to move to Focus 23 on your own; from there, you
will be verbally guided to Focus 25. This region contains all human
6

belief systems, and you are to observe without participation.
You may encounter those you know, but you are only a visitor here
to observe, remember, and take the memory with you. Keep in mind
beliefs are simply tools we use in constructing reality, using them to
limit certain areas and to expand others.
Voyager 4—Intro to Focus 27
This is your introduction to Focus 27, the reception center between
physical lives. This area was created as a way station, a familiar
place to relax, meet with others, ask for help, communicate and consult with others.
It is designed to ease the trauma and shock of the transition out of
physical environments for the many different new arrivals.
Through the assistance of counselors, the newly arrived can become
calm and rational. Eventually the next goal along the path is decided, and the visitor is directed away from the Reception Center to
begin a new path to achievement, whatever that may be.
You are only a visitor here, as you are still in physical matter reality. This is a vast area, so be open to other perceptions other than
visual, such as impressions, feelings, sensing, knowing, etc. You are
instructed to just explore, as you find or create your own special
place that you can visit again during your regular sleep. A place
where you can meet with friends and those you love. This is also the
7

region where you will return in Exercise 5 to assist those stuck in
Focus 23.
Voyager 5—Retrieval
This exercise is designed to teach you how to assist those in Focus
23. You will first be instructed to move to Focus 27 to ask for help
in making a “rescue run.” Suspend the skeptical, critical, and analytical left-brain part of yourself during this exercise, so that you
may be free to fully experience and explore. Be open to the many
ways in which information and communication may be perceived
beyond the five physical senses.
You may have a visual impression of the guidance available, or you
may not. Look for subtleties, such as:
• A “lightening” in the energy around you
• You may feel suddenly warmer or cooler in your body
temperature
• A flash of color
• Your heart rate might accelerate
• You may just “sense” that there is a presence around you
• You could feel a tingling in your hands, arms or feet
• A rush of energy throughout your body
• A chill like goosebumps on your neck or arms
• You may sense the feeling of a cool breeze moving across your
face or the top of your hands
• A little flutter on your cheek, like the trail of a butterfly wing
• Or maybe just a “knowing” that guidance is there for you
8

The important thing is that whether you perceive its presence in
some form or not, you proceed here with the assumption that it is,
indeed, there with you, because you know from all your experiences
that it is.
Once you have your helper, you will then move back to Focus 23 and
select a newly arrived person to escort to the Reception Center in
Focus 27.
You will have the opportunity to converse with the newcomer before
asking your helper to move that person to someone who can provide
the best assistance. Be open to impressions you may receive, such as
the name of a person that may come to you. Instead of dismissing it,
develop further impressions to build on. Just flow with it. In your
mind you may ask for verification of the name, ask how they are,
how did they get there, or what happened to them. Simply allow
vague initial impressions to develop more fully into things you can
follow up on. Just relax into this and remember you are well-qualified and have much help as you move in this new phase of learning
and experiencing.
You will then be guided back through the various levels to full waking consciousness. Use this exercise as much as you like to provide
assistance to those in Focus 23.

9

Voyager 6—Messages From Beyond
The final exercise in this series is not as structured as all previous
exercises. There is no formal preparatory process or count up/down.
With limited verbal guidance, it acts as more of a free-flow, with a
few visual suggestions and questions to pose. The Hemi-Sync® frequencies will take you into the Focus 27 state where you will
encounter your loved ones, or other loving beings. From here you
will select the one you wish to communicate with, as you ask for and
send messages.

For more information about The Gateway Experience and
other Hemi-Sync® titles, contact your local dealer or:
Hemi-Sync®
P.O. Box 505
Lovingston, Virginia 22949
434-263-8692
Interstate@hemi-sync.com
https://hemi-sync.com

10

