




The Gateway Experience(tm)
Wave IV-Adventure




Voiced by Robert A. Monroe







?
(c) 2001, Monroe Products, All Rights Reserved

Comments from Bob Monroe regarding the Gateway Experience

What can you expect from the Gateway Experience? As much or as little as you put into it. The exercises provide you with a set of tools-how you use them and what you do with them is your responsibility. Some disŁ cover themselves for the first time, and thus
live more completely, more constructively. Others reach levels of awareness so profound that only one such experience is enough for a lifetime. Still others become seekers after truth and add onŁ going adventure to their daily activity.

There is only one basis-that you seriously consider the Gateway Affirmation at the least a possibility: that you are more than your physical body, that you can and do exist in energy systems that are not limited to time-space, that youcan and do communicate with intelligence beyond your physical consciousness-call it what you will.




2


The Gateway Affirmation
I am more than my physical body. Because I am more than physŁ ical matter, I deeply desire to Expand, to Experience; to Know, to Understand; to Control, to Use such greater energies and energy systems as may be beneficial and constructive to me and to those near and close to me. Also, I deeply desire the help and cooperation, the assistance, the understanding of those individŁ uals whose wisdom, development, and experience are equal or greater than my own.

What Is Hemi-Sync(r)?
Hemi-Sync(r) is a patented, scientifically and clinically proven audio-guidance technology developed by The Monroe Institute and refined with over 40 years of research. Researchers learned that specific sound patterns could lead the brain to various states of conŁ sciousness ranging from deep relaxation or sleep to expanded awareness and other "extraordinary" states.

The audio-guidance process works by sending different sounds (tones) to each ear with stereo headphones. The two hemispheres of the brain then act in unison to "hear" a third signal-the differŁ ence between the two tones. This is not an actual sound, but an electrical signal that can only be perceived within the brain by both brain hemispheres working together. The result is a focused, whole-
3

brain state known as hemispheric synchronization, or "HemiŁ Sync(r)." Different Hemi-Sync(r) signals are used to facilitate deep relaxation, focused attention, or other desired states.

Music, verbal guidance, or subtle sound effects are combined with Hemi-Sync(r) signals to strengthen their effectiveness. These recordŁ ings contain no subliminal messages. You are always in control.

Cautions and Warnings: Please Read
The Gateway Experience is a system of training in self exploŁ ration and personal development. It is not a form of psychotheraŁ py, philosophy, religion, or medical diagnosis I treatment. It is a means to acquire knowledge-the application and results thereof are solely the responsibility of the trainee.

DO NOT listen to these Hemi-Sync(r) exercises without first conŁ sulting your physician if you have a tendency toward seizures, audiŁ tory disorders or adverse mental condition(s). In the unlikely event that you experience any unusual physical or mental discomfort, immediately discontinue use. DO NOT listen to Hemi-Sync(r)audio products while driving or operating heavy equipment. Avoid using with other devices that may influence brainwave activity. DO NOT reproduce Hemi-Sync(r) audio products or use with l )olby(r) or other noise reduction systems. Doing so will diminish the effectiveness of
4

the Hemi-Sync(r) signals.
While many of our audio products contribute to wellness, they are not intended to replace medical diagnosis and treatment.

The Gateway Experience
Recommendations for Use
The Gateway Experience is an in-home training program for developing, exploring, and applying expanded states of awareness. Exercises in this series use specially blended Hemi-Sync(r) freŁ quencies combined with verbal guidance and subtle sound effects (or music) to guide you into focused, whole-brain states of conŁ sciousness.

You will be gently led from your physical waking state into deep relaxation then to those thresholds of consciousness where you may experience profound states of expanded awareness. While in such states, one has a broader range of perceptions available with which to solve problems, develop creativity or obtain guidance. You may use this expansion and integration of personal awareŁ ness to know and better understand your total self so you might enjoy a more fulfilling life.

Each album (Wave) in the Gateway Experience is progressive in nature, building directly on the tools and techniques from the pre
5


vious album. Therefore, the albums must be used sequentially. Following are recommendations for listening to these exercises:
Ģ Locate a distraction-free environment where you can darken the room and remain undisturbed for the 30- to 45-minute exercises.
Ģ Listen using stereo headphones on a personal or home stereo system.
Ģ Adjust the volume to a level where you can barely hear the words. Otherwise, the verbal guidance may startle you following a period of silence.
Ģ Allow at least one hour after eating and avoid alcohol, drugs, or excessive caffeine, which may limit the effectiveness of the HemiŁ Sync(r) exercises.
Ģ Get comfortable. Use the bathroom before each exercise even if it seems unnecessary. Loosen any tight clothing and remove shoes, glasses, or contacts. Listen while lying down or seated with your head supported, whichever is more comfortable for you.
Ģ If you itch during an exercise, scratch. You will be able to move gently back into your pattern of relaxation.
Ģ There can be a metabolic drop as you enter an exercise, producŁ ing a perception of heat, motion, or pressure. Have a loose blanket handy, ready to pull up or throw off as needed.
Ģ Keep a journal to document the details of your experiences, such
6

as date/time, body position, medication or unusual diet, mood/attiŁ tude, energy level, moon phase, or any other unusual circumstance.

Wave IV-Adventure
Use of these exercises before completing all previous Waves of the Gateway Experience is not recommended. Discovery helped you build a strong, comfortable foundation for nonphysical exploration in Focus"' 10. Threshold taught you more tools for directing and controlling nonphysical energy in the energy state of Focus 12. Freedom provided you with practice in separating your nonphysiŁ cal from your physical body. Adventure offers you personal direcŁ tion and control of new experiences, new ideas, new capabilities, and new exciting exploration.

Wave IV Exercises
Adventure #1- One Year Patterning
One Year Patterning requires your thoughtful prior consideraŁ tion about exactly how and what you desire to be in one year's time. Use the same guidelines given for Threshold #3 as you folŁ low the same process. The differences are the longer time frame and, more importantly, your increased knowledge of your ability to use the power of expanded consciousness. Be sure you really want what you pattern for, pattern strongly, and let it go with trust and confidence and gratitude.
7

Adventure #2-Five Messages
Five Messages requires no prior action except, as usual, to approach the exercise with openness, gratitude, and a sensitivity to your perceptions of any nature. Wait until after to analyze and interpret your messages. Such "left brain" functions interfere with your synchronized Focus 12 state. Review the guidelines for Threshold #2 and Freedom #4 for additional suggestions.

Adventure #3-Free Flow 12
After introducing you to a "beacon guidepost" as your personal ref erence point, this exercise supports planned, systematic exploŁ rations wherever you desire. Deciding on a purpose (or destinaŁ tion) before you begin helps you avoid drifting into a sleep or dream state. Seek information or guidance you desire, and express gratitude for what you receive. As you repeat the exercise again and again, extend the scope of your journeys.

During these self-directed adventures, experiment creatively with any and all of the methods you have learned. Remember: these valuable tools cannot serve you unless you take them out of your mental tool box and use them. lfoam far and free in perfect comŁ fort, knowing that you will safely and surely return to C-1.



8

Adventure #4-NVC I
Nonverbal Communication (NVC) is not what we commonly understand as body language, but rather a primary method of interaction in and among different realities and energy systems. It is total expression, occurring within the mind and in mind-toŁ mind exchanges. You have encountered NVC in previous Gateway Experience exercises and in the dream state: vibraŁ tions, light, action, emotion are a few examples. Begin to build your NVC "vocabulary" with these and other nonphysical percepŁ tions, together with new meanings for familiar perceptions. Experiment with all your Gateway Experience tools and methŁ ods of perception and practice repeatedly to develop confidence in your NVC ability.

Adventure #5-NVC II
Further practice to develop your NVC vocabulary leads to comŁ municating your Affirmation nonverbally. Then you use your expanded awareness to receive NVC from others. The more you strengthen your NVC ability, the better you will learn from your Gateway experiences. Practice counts.

Adventure #6-Compoint 12
Compoint, an abbreviation for communications point, is a locaŁ tion you establish along the continuum of consciousness. Actively

9

engage in creating an environment that invites communication. Some examples could be a high tech computer station to receive input from the mainframe, a lush garden with comfortable benchŁ es overlooking a tranquil pond, or a cozy log cabin with overstuffed chairs for cherished conversation with dear friends. Let it be appropriate for you.

Your growing NVC skills enable you to use the compoint to gathŁ er information, encounter other energy systems, or simply observe. You develop more NVC vocabulary for reaching out, greeting, saying goodbye and expressing gratitude. Because you can go to your compoint easily and surely whenever you wish, it can serve as a convenient rendezvous with your nonphysical friends.

Looking Ahead
Wave V-Exploring is awaiting you when you are ready to continŁ ue your explorations. From the now familiar state of Focus 12, you will be introduced to Focus 15, the "no time" state - the state of simply being. Here, far beyond your five physical senses, you can connect with the source of your intuition.without verbal guidance.

Contact your local dealer or:
Monroe Products
P.O. Box 505
Lovingston, Virginia 22949
434-263-8692
800-541-2488
FAX: 434-263-8699
Interstate@Hemi-Sync.com www.Hemi-Sync.com
Many Gateway Experience enthusiasts become inspired to attend the residential programs made available by The Monroe Institute. If you have an interest in learning more about these programs, you may do so by visiting the Institute 's Web site at: www.monroeinstitute.org or by calling the Program Registrar at 434-361-1252 or 866-881-3440 (toll free).

10	11

Recommended reading:

Journeys Out Of The Body by Robert A. Monroe (Doubleday, 1971)
The undisputed classic on out-of-body experiences. Unpredictably, and without willing it, Monroe, a pragmatic Virginia businessman, found himself leaving his physical body to travel via a "second body" to locales far removed from the physiŁ cal and spiritual realities of his life. He was exploring a place unbounded by time or death.

Far Journeys by Robert A. Monroe (Doubleday, 1985)
This mesmerizing odyssey, written after a decade of intensive research, takes you even farther beyond the known dimensions of the physical universe. With great insight and wit, Monroe offers new awareness into the untapped resources and limitless possibilities of the human mind.

Ultimate Journey by Robert A. Monroe (Doubleday, 1994)
In a long-awaited sequel, Monroe explores the incredibly rewarding opportunities that lie beyond the limits of the physiŁ cal world. He charts the route that opens to us when we leave our physical lives and takes the reader with him on an exhilaŁ rating journey that expands the limits of human experience.
12
