Gateway Experience Manual
WRACAJ
THE GATEWAY EXPERIENCE GUIDANCE MANUAL
A GATEWAY TO SELF-EXPLORATION
Published by: The Monroe Institute
Copyright 1989, The Monroe Institute, All Rights Reserved The Monroe Institute, a nonprofit
educational and research facility, is deeply interested in the progress you achieve with these
training exercises. Send your reports or requests for further information regarding the Gateway
Experience in-home program to the Gateway Experience Coordinator. To continue the
program, please contact your local distributor or The Monroe Institute.
The Gateway Experience is a system of training in personal development. It is not a form of
psychotherapy, philosophy, religion, or medical diagnosis/treatment. It is a means to acquire
knowledge. The application and results thereof are solely the responsibility of the trainee. The
Gateway Experience training series is sold for private use only. Any public or commercial use
thereof without written consent of The Monroe Institute is strictly prohibited.
Caution: These tapes must not be used while driving. Use only with your doctor’s permission if
you are taking psychotropic medication or are engaged in therapy. Your doctor may call our
Professional Division with any questions. Do not use tapes with any indication of epilepsy.
Directory
Advanced Focus 10 (Discovery #3)
Adventure (Wave IV)
Bio-Body (Prospecting #2)
Brain Power
Color Breathing (Threshold #4)
Comments from Robert A. Monroe
Compoint (Adventure #6)
Discovery (Wave I)
Encoding Instructions
Energy Bar Tool (Threshold.#5)
Energy Food (Freedom #5)
Energy Walks
Exploration, Sleep (Discovery.#5)
Exploring (Wave V)
Far Reaches (Prospecting #6)
First-Stage Separation (Freedom #6)
Five Messages (Adventure #2)
Five Questions (Freedom #4)
Focus 12: Overview
Free Flow Methods of Exploration
Free Flow 10 (Discovery #6)
Free Flow 1 2 (Adventure #3)
Freedom (Wave III)
Gateway Affirmation, The
Gateway Entry

Gateway Experience, The
Horizons (Exploring #5)
Introduction to Focus 10 (Discovery #2)
Introduction to Focus 12 (Threshold #1)
Liftoff (Freedom #1)
Living Body Map (Threshold #6)
Metamorphosite (Prospecting #1)
Mission Day (Exploring #3)
Mission Night (Exploring #4)
Mission 10 (Exploring #1)
Mission 12 (Exploring #2)
Near Reaches (Prospecting #5)
Need Grounding?
Null Point (Prospecting #3)
NVC I (Adventure #4)
NVC II (Adventure #5)
One-Breath Technique, The
One-Month Patterning (Threshold #3)
One-Year Patterning (Adventure #1)
Orientation (Discovery #1 )
Out-of-Body Experience
Pathways (Exploring #6)
Plus Polarity (Prospecting #4)
Preventing and Solving Cassette Problems Problem Solving (Threshold #2)
Prospecting (Wave VI)
Questions & Answers
Release and Recharge (Discovery #4)
Remote Viewing (Freedom #2)
Required Equipment
Resonant Energy Balloon (REBAL)
Tape-Taking Recommendations
Threshold (Wave II)
Vectors (Freedom #3)

The Gateway Affirmation
I am more than my physical body. Because I am more than physical matter, I can perceive that
which is greater than the physical world. Therefore, I deeply desire to Expand, to Experience; to
Know, to Understand; to Control, to Use such greater energies and energy systems as may be
beneficial and constructive to me and to those who follow me. Also, I deeply desire the help
and cooperation, the assistance, the understanding of those individuals whose wisdom,
development, and experience are equal to or greater than my own. I ask their guidance and
protection from any influence or any source that might provide me with less than my stated
desires.

(Note: This Affirmation has evolved over time. On some Gateway Experience tapes it may be
slightly different from the way it is presented here. Both versions will help you make the most
of your experiences. Remember, it is the intent rather than the words themselves that is
important.) Comments From Robert A. Monroe Regarding The Gateway Experience
Sometimes it’s hard to determine a beginning, the point where an idea becomes a reality. The
Gateway Programs are not in this category. We remember well when they started.
In 1973, at Whistlefield Research Laboratories, in Afton, Virginia, we were conducting
research studies on the effects of the environment on human consciousness. The Esalen
organization at Big Sur, California, famous as the birthplace of many new trends in psychology
and philosophy, heard of our work and invited us to conduct a weekend workshop at their
facility. As a result, we had many requests to repeat the process elsewhere. Our Executive
Committee approved this new activity as a means of broadening our research model – and
indeed it did. Originally called the M-5000 Program, sessions were held on weekends at
various sites throughout the United States and Canada. Several thousand individuals from all
walks of life participated in this constantly evolving series of training exercises. When we
understood better the process taking place, we renamed it the Gateway Voyage Program –
because what we were presenting was a Gateway, a means by which the individual could move
into the exploration, knowledge, and understanding of oneself as well as the many reality
systems where one has existence. The Gateway Experience is a special version of the Gateway
Voyage Program. Designed for in-home application, it incorporates methods and techniques of
the Gateway, adapted so that you can benefit from it wherever and whenever you so desire.
Consisting of six exercises on tape cassettes, Discovery is the first album in this course. There
are a total of six albums (thirty-six tapes) in the Gateway Experience. Sequentially, the
remaining albums are: Threshold, Freedom, Adventure, Exploring, and Prospecting. Each tape
and album contain a specific pattern of training. Accordingly, it is very important that you
work with them in sequence. With in-home training, you have a definite advantage. You can
repeat each exercise until you feel comfortable and proficient with its use. Do this. Then move
to the next.
The sound pattern you will hear on the tapes is a scientific process that helps you develop and
absorb these Gateway states of consciousness. It is not hypnosis, although some of the
techniques seem similar. The Gateway forms of consciousness show significantly different
EEG brain-wave patterns from those of hypnosis subjects. At present, there is controversy as to
what such patterns truly mean and how to categorize them. What can you expect from the
Gateway Experience? As much or as little as you put into it. The exercises provide you with a
set of tools – how you use them and what you do with them is your responsibility. Some
discover themselves for the first time, and thus live more completely, more constructively.
Others reach levels of awareness so profound that only one such experience is enough for a
lifetime. Still others become seekers-after-truth and add an on-going adventure to their daily
activities. There is one basic promise – that you seriously consider the Gateway Affirmation at
the least a possibility: that you are more than your physical body, that you can and do exist in
energy systems that are not limited to time-space, that you can and do communicate with
intelligence beyond your physical consciousness – call it what you will.

WELCOME!

Brain Power
The Benefits of Hemispheric Synchronization
Perhaps even before recorded history, humans have sought to understand and enhance
perception. By doing so, we are better able to understand and enhance our daily lives. The
questions surrounding how we perceive, or how we go about making sense of our awareness,
stimulate many avenues of inquiry.
One of these avenues, science, has long known that our brains are divided into two halves, or
hemispheres. In muscle functions, the nerve signals from these brain hemispheres act in an X
crossover. The left brain controls the right side of the body, and the right brain controls the left
side.
But only in recent years has it been discovered that these two hemispheres may be quite
different in the functions they perform. Research indicates that we use the left brain pri-marily
to talk and read, do mathematics, to reason deduc-tively, to remember detail, and to measure
time, among other facets. It is the vehicle for logical, rational thought. Our right brain is the
vehicle for ideas, spatial sense, intuition, music, emotion, and probably much more than we
now realize. It apparently has a language all its own.
Moreover, most of the time we think with our left brain. When we use our right brain, it is
primarily to support the thought and action of the left. Otherwise, we often ignore it.
Since its inception, the left-brain/right-brain theory has been under controversy. To stay apart
from this unresolved conflict, our representation here is merely symbolic. Regardless of the
physical location, we apparently have at least two distinct ways of perceiving and thinking. For
the moment, the terms „left brain” and „right brain” serve only as identifying labels, or as a
metaphor. We are primarily a right-handed civilization, dominated by our left brains. How did
we get this way? No one is absolutely sure, but one of the better guesses is that the left-brain
dominance came about because of a basic need to survive in a physical world. Through
thousands of years, our forebears added to left-brain dominance because that was the way to get
things done. Our entire system-books, schools, colleges and universities, industry, political
struc-tures, churches – is fundamentally left-brained in learning, application. and operation. We
have generally regarded right-brain thinking with amused tolerance, suspicion, disgust,
irritation, distrust – and awe.
However, recent studies show we use our right brain throughout our daily lives in many subtle
ways. For example, the left brain remembers the name, but the right brain remembers the face.
(How many times have you spotted a familiar face but couldn’t remember his or her name?)
Studies of world leaders throughout history indicate they were thinkers who used far more than
the analytical, intellectual portions of their minds. All great decisions by these leaders have
been made with the left brain PLUS. Plus the right brain? Evidence supports it, based upon
what we now know. How, then, do we go about using more of our brain power? There is a
method and technique that offers much promise and potential. It can be utilized with relative
ease, does not require years of intensive training, and is not limited to a narrow band of
application. It is called HEMI-SYNC, which is short for hemispheric synchronization.

Developed by The Monroe Institute, this process uses pulses of sound to create in both brain
hemispheres electrical wave forms simultaneously equal in frequency and amplitude.
The Institute was granted a patent in 1975 based upon the use of such sound pulses to induce a
frequency following response (FFR) in the human brain. The FFR demonstrates that when you
hear a certain type of sound, your brain tends to respond to, or resonate with, that sound.
Various electrical brain-wave patterns are indicators of specific states of consciousness (such as
awake or asleep). Therefore, certain sound patterns can assist you in achieving desired states of
consciousness. Hemi-Sync takes the process an important additional step. Each ear sends its
dominant nerve signal to the opposite brain hemisphere, following the X pattern mentioned
earlier. By sending separate sound pulses to each ear (using stereo headphones to isolate one ear
from the other), the halves of the brain act in unison to „hear” a third signal, which is the
difference in frequencies between the two signals in each ear. For example, if you hear a sound
measuring 100 hertz (cycles per second) in one ear and another signal of 125 hertz in the other
ear, the signal your whole brain will „generate” will be 25 hertz. This third signal is the binaural
beat. It is never an actual sound, but an electrical signal created by both brain hemispheres
acting and working together. If the 25-hertz signal (above) is one that produces a certain type
of consciousness, then the whole brain – both hemispheres – is focused in a coherent state of
awareness. Most important, the state of awareness can be changed at will by changing the
sound pattern. It also can be learned and recreated from memory as desired.
The Hemi-Sync process already has been tested and applied in many ways:
for better sleep, stress-tension reduction, control of pain, accelerated learning, study and
concen-tration, enhanced creativity, problem solving, even for playing a better game of golf.
Furthermore, it has been one of the fundamental reasons for the success of the Gateway
Programs. The sounds you hear during the Gateway Experience exercises are characteristic of
this process.

The Gateway Experience
As are all Gateway Programs, the Gateway Experience is dedicated to the exploration and
development of human consciousness through a system of exercises using Hemi-Sync. These
exercises assist you to know and better understand your total self. They are designed so you
may learn and experience profound areas of expanded awareness. Each exercise requires active
concentration, volition, and sometimes courage, as you move by carefully controlled steps from
deep relaxation to those thresholds of consciousness apparently related to deep meditation.
These thresholds become Gateways into different forms of perception:
states of expanded awareness, of freedom. The tapes also provide a structured environment in
which you create your own experiences, your own adventures.
Many who use the Gateway Experience, or participate in the Institute’s programs, are in search
of the out-of-body experience (OBE). This is not surprising considering the wide dissemination
of Mr. Monroe’s books and the extensive media coverage of our work in this area. One of the
Institute’s early goals was to de-velop and provide a training system in this technique.
However, as more sophisticated methods of exploration were developed, it became evident that
participants were entering discrete (distinct and separate) nonordinary states of consciousness.
These states facilitate a great deal more than the OBE.

Each individual approaches this internal work with different abilities, concepts, and dynamic
processes. Each enters this area from a different place and goes to a different place. The
Institute goal is to provide techniques for exploring your full potential and for „travelling”;
rather than to provide a destination. In a broad sense, the research has led to a point where the
OBE is far overshadowed by the development of human potential on all levels. In addiction, the
Hemi-Sync audio stimulus is not overpowering and can easily be rejected if it is not in
agreement with your conscious or unconscious desires. For these reasons, The Monroe Institute
does not guarantee an OBE. However, Gateways are provided into various levels of awareness.

Gateway Entry
„Begin now.” Begin where you are, with an easy acceptance of who you are. To explore is to
observe by discerning differences rather than by making judgments.
Assume that the Hemi-Sync audio techniques presented by The Monroe Institute will create
different brain-wave patterns, and there are various ways to perceive these differences within
yourself. One method of perception is to feel differences kinesthetically (sensations that are, or
seem to be, physical). Pay attention to your body and feel subtle sensations. These sensations
might feel like motion: rising and falling, rocking, sliding, and tipping. You might feel
„electric” sensations: tingling or vibrations. Perhaps you might feel twitches, pulsing, pressure,
or changes in temperature. Ask, „How does my foot feel?” rather than, „Is my foot relaxed”
Those feelings may change and shift, come and go; creating subtle patterns which are beautiful
in and of themselves. And like the surf, never assume that the frailty of its foam is a measure of
the ocean’s power.
In our language, our concepts are deeply tied to the visual. We honor men and women of vision,
and value insight. Do you see what we mean? Visual means of perception are important. At the
same time, visual perception is often overemphasized and considered essential to the control
and use of energy. It’s not necessarily so. One can get caught up in the entertainment value of
the visual, and the endless fascination of unfolding visualization can blind us to other kinds of
perception. Visualizations can be incredibly meaningful. However, an attachment to them can
become a major block to other perceptual cues. An auditory perception may manifest as verbal
messages, voices, or impressions of voices. lt may also occur as sounds such as static, buzzing,
pops and clicks, tones, or even music. These perceptions have a delicacy, a quality difficult to
convey in physical, waking consciousness (Consciousness One or C-1) terms. Too often, we
close such beautiful- channels that were open to us by discounting our impression as unreal
rather than allowing them to be legitimate. Gateway participants often report intuitive
perceptions: a sudden awareness, a gestalt, a whole-knowing, or „thought­ball” as one person
delightfully described it.
There are no right or wrong ways to experience these exercises. Whatever your method(s) of
perception, getting deeply into yourself will enable you to appreciate more of that which is
around you. Value and build on your uniqueness: in it is wholeness and unity.

WAVE I: DISCOVERY
The Gateway Experience is a means to your self-discovery, a Gateway to your choice of an
ideal or a destination. The ultimate goal of the Gateway Experience is for you to no longer need
the tapes. They are like training wheels on a bicycle: wonderful for practice, but inhibiting as
you learn to ride far and free. Your journey begins with the Discovery album. You will learn

through direct experience, discovering that words and theories are only one way to obtain
knowledge. As a result, as you perform these exercises, your experiences will take you beyond
what you think or what you have read, to what you know.
There may be times when you „click-out” of the exercise, especially as you begin to move up to
and beyond your level of experience. Clicking-out is different from falling asleep. There is a
sense of having dropped out of the exercise. Upon returning to or finishing the exercise, there is
no perception of time having passed. You will have stored the memory of your experience, but
will have no immediate recall. Clicking-out is a common, frequently reported experience.
As you learn to cooperate with your own inner direction, the paradoxical nature of the Gateway
itself emerges: your desire to explore intensifies as you become more willing to release any
attachment to results. Expectations limit the unknown by what you now know. Any conflict
between doing something and being there, or between active and passive states, is resolved in
Focus 10. Doing and being merge, triggering what we call „synchronicity,” or a synergism
between thought and action, between imagination and reality, between self and universe. -In
Focus 10, the serious and playful aspects of selfdiscovery also merge, effort and fun are no
longer in conflict. You enter a flow. Burdens become light.
So seriously, have fun!

Tape-Taking Recommendations
Locate a distraction-free environment where you can darken the room and remain undisturbed
during the thirty -to forty-five-minute taped exercises. Make sure you will not be interrupted by
the phone. However, if you do experi-ence noise (such as dogs barking, street repairs, children
playing, etc.), simply note the distraction and use it to go deeper into your experience. For
example, each time you hear a dog bark, tell yourself you are settling deeper within yourself,
that the noise is allowing you to explore further and further.
Allow at least one hour after eating and avoid alcohol, drugs, or excessive caffeine, which may
limit the effectiveness of the Hemi-Sync exercises.
Get comfortable. Use the bathroom before each exercise, even if it seems unnecessary. Loosen
any tight clothing and remove shoes and glasses (or contacts). Listen to the tapes while lying
down or in a seated position with your head supported, whichever is more comfortable for you.
Shift positions as necessary, both before and during the exercise. If you itch during an exercise,
scratch. You will be able to move gently back into your pattern of relaxation.
There can be a metabolic drop as you enter an exercise, producing a coolness or chill which can
quickly change to a perception of heat, motion, or pressure. Have a loose blanket or cover
handy, ready to pull up or throw off as needed.
You may wish to keep a journal to document the details of your experiences such as: date/time,
body position, medication or unusual diet, mood/attitude, energy level, moon phase, or any
other unusual circumstance.
DO NOT use the Gateway Experience tapes while driving.

Required Equipment
Stereo cassette tape player (do not use Dolby or other noise-reduction systems)

Stereo headphones (with separate volume controls if you have a hearing imbalance).

Preventing and Solving Cassette Problems
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.

Be sure the tape is always fully wound and stored in a cassette case.
Be sure the pinch roller (on the tape player) is not worn as it will catch and „eat” the tape.
Clean tape heads, pinch roller, and metal drive posts every twenty tapes.
If the tape appears to be stuck (not winding) – slap it against the palm of your hand three
times. This will realign the small plastic sheets inside the cassette.
Allow tapes left in a cold area to warm up at least one hour before using.
Before rewinding the tape, take out all slack.
Store all tapes in a cool, nonhumid area.
If the tape player „eats” the tape, very carefully remove the tangled section. Rewind the tape
by sticking the eraser end of a pencil in the spool and tightening the tape.

Discovery #1: Orientation
The tools, exercises, and experiences you will discover or each tape in the Discovery album
build upon the tools, exercises, and experiences of the previous tape. Indeed, each tape and
album in the Gateway Experience builds upon the same features of the previous tapes and
albums. The more intimate and proficient you become with each tape, the more you will be able
to explore and master the next tape or album. By carefully and patiently using Discovery, you
will build a solid foundation within you that will enable you to get the most out of this in-home
training system. It is also recommended that you perform each exercise as instructed at least
the first time you listen to it. Then, you may choose to innovate and do something else. Let your
experience during the tape guide you. Stay open to change and flow with your experience.
Don’t force anything. If you are curious about the content of each tape, you may first listen to it
objectively, over speakers.
In Discovery, repetition of tapes is advancement. Each time you listen to a tape, you become
stronger, clearer, and more masterful with it. Return to basic tapes for reinforce-ment; doing so
will deepen your experiences and is strongly recommended.
Various tools are developed in Discovery to create bridging as one begins to detect and focus
the strong energies we call „nonphysical.” These are often perceived as electrical or vibratory
sensations, as well as motion, heat, or pressure. These energies can flow in Focus 10, and can,
depending on your choice, influence physical reality. To use these tapes effectively, please
familiarize yourself with the Tape-Taking Recommendations on page 17. The following
sections refer directly to processes on this tape:

Hemi-Sync
Hemispheric synchronization is demonstrated in a simple way by placing a steady tone in one
ear, then a different steady tone in the other ear. As these different tones are blended together in
the brain, the binaural beat or wavering sound you hear is a brain-produced phenomenon
created as both hemispheres act in unison. Such signals can stimulate specific states of
consciousness, which are automatically learned and then can be recreated from memory.
Hemispheric synchronization focuses your attention, thereby enhancing creativity and problem
solving, and providing a greater awareness of your overall environment. Consider light waves

as an example of the Hemi-Sync process. Radiant light sources, such as sunlight or a lamp’s
tungsten filament, are incoherent in that energy is produced with random timing, and focusing
directs an irregular stream of photons to a specific area. In turn, the laser (light amplification by
the stimulated emission of radiation) is uniquely pure (of the same wavelength) and coherent
(waves are in phase or synchronized).
Imagine the implications of our ability to focus con-sciousness using the lamp and laser
metaphor: with training in consciousness, our minds have the potential to become lamps turned
lasers. As a result, our abilities to learn, focus our minds, and direct our thoughts are
automatically amplified. Using Hemi-Sync, the specific exercises in the Gateway Experience
provide a means for laser-like focusing of human consciousness.

Volume Adjustment
Adjust the volume so that it is just within your hearing range. As you listen to the tape, your
senses will become heightened, more sensitized. If the volume is too high, you may feel
startled when you hear verbal instructions during different stages of the exercise. Do not
readjust your headphones again during the tape. Shifts in volume of the Hemi-Sync frequencies
are intentional. A high volume will not enhance the effectiveness of the FFR or masked sound
patterns. In fact, it may reduce the benefits of the exercise.

Surf
Ocean surf-waves of natural energy in action is a symbol of the Monroe audio system: you will
learn to perceive, tune, and control waves of your own natural vibrational energy. It is
important to understand that you will be learning to control your energy better. As a result, you
will be able to attune yourself to, or harmonize with, your environment in more varied and
meaningful ways than ever before. This will enable you to establish resonance with, rather than
control over, other people and nature.

Energy Conversion Box
Create in your mind a „box,” a part of your personal space that, for the duration of any exercise,
can be filled with all your worries and concerns, and then can be set aside, leaving you free and
unencumbered. Create it in your mind, even if you don’t see, hear, or feel it. Make it really
yours, so it will work with you by giving you the space to detach yourself from whatever is
holding you back. You may design your own box: perceive it as simple or ornate, conventional
or high-tech, physical or nonphysical. In other words, it may be an old, wood chest or an
intricately designed marble container; it may be a vacuum cleaner or a nuclear particle
collector; or it may be a lead-lined box or a sphere of light. You may also find that your box
changes in size, shape, or color as you progress. Allow it to change, and use it as a symbol of
your changes and growth Put concrete symbols of worries or distractions into your box. For
example, use your billfold as a symbol for money concerns, your watch as a symbol for time
concerns, or a photograph representing someone who is on your mind. Experiment. Gateway
participants have discovered marvelous things to set aside: a tiny version of the physical world
with themselves outside; lists of limiting words like can’t, won’t and isn’t; anchors to both the
past and the future; assumptions about both success and failure; symbols of defenses
resembling a series of masks. A man once spent a whole exercise trying to force his box open:
he tore at it, pried, and ordered it to open, all to no avail. Baffled, he stopped and confronted his

box, and in the sudden knowing of Focus 10, he realized force doesn’t work, and with one
gentle movement, he opened his box. You may also want to return to your box during an
exercise. Place whatever you wish in your box whenever you feel like doing so.

Affirmation
The Gateway Affirmation serves several purposes: It helps you focus your attention on what
you want to accomplish during any exercise. It helps you focus your intent, thereby enabling
you to become more aware of your expanding consciousness. It gives you permission to
respond to, and work with, other energy and energy systems. Plus, it helps you stay, relaxed and
open to a variety of helpful influences.

Resonant Tuning
Resonant Tuning is a breathing exercise to help you vitalize and charge your entire system. It
promotes an accel--erated gathering of your vibrational energy while reducing your internal
dialogue. In addition to preparing you for these exercises, you may use Resonant Tuning for
meditation or quieting your thoughts.
What is referred to in this Guidance Manual as non-physical energy, Robert Monroe calls
second-state energy. This vital energy flows along lines of force, operating on the principle that
our bodies, as well as the universe, function bilaterally, and like batteries, have a positive pole,
and a negative pole. Breathing exercises are a universal method of vitalizing and recharging
your „battery,” moving this energy through its natural channels in and around the body,
loosening knots and blockages, and correcting imbalances. Within the tape exercises, this
process can manifest as sudden jerks and twitches, or even as a sensation resembling pain. Odd
as it may sound, resistance increases this phenomenon. But by confronting the experience and
allowing it to work itself out, you will move beyond it.
During the breathing exercises, follow the pacing on the tape to the extent that it is comfortable
for you. As the Resonant Tuning chant begins on the tape, continue the same breathing pattern,
vocalizing with the „aaah,” „oooh,” and „uuum” sounds as you exhale. Set your own rhythm,
your own pace. Use the sounds on the tape only as a guide. It is important that you actually
make the sounds with your physical vocal cords. You will soon grow comfortable with this
process and you may notice kinesthetic responses as your body becomes aligned with resonant
energy. As you inhale, imagine an infinity of sparkling, vibrant, vital energy around you. Pull it
into all parts of your body and up into your head. Since energy continues to flow, allow the
energy to move and swirl gently around in your head as you hold your breath. Exhale through
your lips as if you were softly blowing out a candle, releasing any tired, stale energy out
through your body and the bottoms of your feet. Breathing slightly deeper than you normally
would is just as effective as explosive, championship breaths. Open your eyes as you inhale,
and close them as you exhale. Coordi-nating your eye movement with your breathing is one
way to become aware of your ability to control autonomic (automatic) behavior. Typically, eye
blinking and breathing are accomplished without the slightest thought on your part. Now,
however, you will plant a seed that may grow into a full realization that you can assume
voluntary control over these processes. In other words, you can recognize, change, and direct
habitual behavior and reflexes. Should you relax to the extent you seem to have lost contact
with everything physical, simply breathe normally and open your eyes, or move the fingers of

your right hand, and your entire body will respond and return to waking, physical
consciousness.

Focus 3
Focus 3 is a signpost on the way to Focus 10, a Hemi-Sync state where your brain and mind are
more coherent, synchronized, and balanced. You will move to Focus 3 by a conventional count
of one to three.

Return to Full Waking Consciousness
At the end of every tape exercise, you will hear a strong audio signal designed to bring you to a
state of full, waking consciousness (C-1 ). Despite the temptation to take off your headphones
early, listen to this signal until it is withdrawn. It will bring you completely „back” from the
exercise. The more you bring yourself back from an exercise, the further you can go into your
next exercise.

Discovery #2: Introduction to Focus 10
Use this exercise after you are completely comfortable with Discovery Exercise Tape #1.

Focus 10
In Focus 10, the 10-State your mind remains awake and alert; your body is calmly, deeply, and
comfortably asleep.
You will move into this state of total relaxation by first moving to Focus 3, and then by letting
various parts of your face and head progressively go limp and relax. This relaxation of your
head will then „flow into your brain,” which will feel and understand such a state, and will in
turn allow such relaxation to flow through your whole body. Move along with the instructions,
successively focusing upon and then totally releasing each body part. To „look with your closed
eyes” at your foot is a way to view it objectively, thus creating a sense of detachment. Your
body knows how to do this.
The count to Focus 10 will continue. From four to ten, at each successive count you will relax
another part of your physical body. One of the paradoxes of „body asleep,” or total relaxation,
and „mind awake,” is the possibility of sudden heightened sensitivity: hearing the swish of
arterial blood flow behind your ears, or feeling the pores of your skin breathe. Spontaneous
remote sensing is another possibility in Focus 10: audio material you would swear was actually
on the tape this time, but not last time, or the total presence of faraway, delicate odors.

Health Affirmation
When you return to full, waking reality, your body will be so equalized as to overcome all those
things that might hinder or prevent it from being and giving its best mental, spiritual, and
physical self... This is the beginning of the Health Affirmation that you will hear at the end of
these exercises. It will help you balance your physical and nonphysical energies. Know that the
affirmation is working for you without effort on your part.

Countdown
As you return from the tape exercise, move from the count of ten to one, to full, physical,
walking consciousness or Consciousness One (C-1 ). Encoding (Please see Encoding
Instructions on page 77.)
Awake and Alert, and Memory.

Discovery #3: Advanced Focus 10
Use this exercise after you are completely comfortable with Discovery Exercise #2.
Resonant Energy Balloon (REBAL)
You have recharged and revitalized your energy with Resonant Tuning. Now you will use this
energy to create a moving field, a Resonant Energy Balloon (REBAL) around you. Create a
flow pattern with your breath by letting energy flow out of the top or your head like a fountain,
allowing it to continue flowing gently down and around you, and then reentering your body,
through the bottoms of your feet. Then shift the flow pattern into a spiral, winding the energy
down around you and coiling it back up inside you. You will automatically reabsorb this energy
at the end of any exercise.
Your REBAL is an intensification of your own energy, helping to create a high energy state*
within and around you. Operating on a principle of resonance, in accordance with the Gateway
Affirmation, your REBAL is like a sieve or filter: only, energy that is equal to, or of a higher, or
more refined, vibration than yours will have access to your energy field. As such, your REBAL
is a shield from energy forms that you may not want to be influenced by at any particular
moment. The REBAL also acts as a magnet, attracting the influences and guidance from higher
energy forms. The more you build your REBAL, the more your physical body will be able to
sustain higher and higher energy levels, until Focus 10 can become a launch pad from which
you will float or move into other energy states.
•

For the purposes of this Manual, high energy state refers to an enhanced state of awareness
that embraces methods of perception not ordinarily used in physical, waking consciousness.
(Please see Gateway Entry on page 12.) While in a high energy state, one has available a
broader range of perceptions with which to solve problems, develop creativity, obtain
guidance, or simply enjoy greater awareness of, and interaction with, one’s internal and
external reality.
A high energy state is not to be confused with hyperactivity, or excess energy. Nor is it
„higher” in the sense of „better” than any other state of awareness. It does, however, reflect
the expansion and integration of personal awareness, enabling one to lead a more fulfilling
life. Your REBAL may spontaneously assume a different energy flow form, such as having
a delicate membrane, in contrast to being a force field, or becoming radiant, like an
intensified aura. Since we exist in our own energy field, like fish unaware of being in the
water, the actual perception of your REBAL often becomes a function of need. Although
you may not always perceive your REBAL, a good exercise is to play with sensing it in
some manner. For example, sense it through visions, feelings, and/or muscle sensations.
You can learn to „pop” your REBAL into place, turning it on or extending it while in either
C-1 or in Focus 10, much like you would switch on a flashlight; simply by using one
resonant energy breath as the switch. Inhale vital energy, and as you hold it, think of a

bright moving circle with the number ten inside it. Let it move down, around, and over you
as you exhale. You will automatically reabsorb your REBAL, or you can choose to draw the
circle back into yourself as you inhale. Build and rebuild your REBAL, store the energy as
you would in a charged battery, then turn it on and use it. Experiment. Extend your REBAL
while you are in a group of people and see if its resonance will create a response in people
like yourself. Discover if doing so draws their attention to you much as striking a tuning
fork will activate others in harmony with it. For another experiment, extend it around your
car while you are driving. Find out if you experience better traffic patterns, or if it helps you
find a parking space a little easier.

Return to Focus 10
You will count down to C-1 once, and then return to Focus 10 for reinforcement of this
exercise.
Encoding
REBAL, Focus 10, and Return to C-1.
Discovery #4: Release and Recharge
Use this exercise after you are completely comfortable with tapes 1 through 3.
This is an energy conversion exercise designed to clean, balance, and revitalize your entire
system gently. Use it daily in Focus 10, with or without the tape.
In C-1, we use a multitude of processes in order to deal with our emotions. In Focus 10, you can
work from an entirely different dynamic – a dynamic that may seem unconventional to some
who are well-versed in various theories of psychological systems. That dynamic is one of
energy, con-version, which operates on a paradoxical principle long used in many philosophies:
you „raise yourself with the help of that which causes you to fail.”
Energy conversion is a process that allows you to release self-imposed limits resulting from the
encrustation of fear and associated emotion. Independent research has shown that when we are
born, we have only two innate fears – fear of falling and fear of loud noises. If all other fears
are learned, they can be unlearned. Fear is like pain: useful as a warning signal, but once
acknowledged, it is no longer needed. In the high energy state of Focus 10, you can calmly
identify and gently release fears, blocks, limits – anything that interferes with your growth or
progress. You can then reclaim the clean energy that existed before such limits were in place.
Reclaim-ing the pure, natural energy which is an integral part of you can make you whole. You
have been putting all your worries, anxieties, and concerns in your Energy Conversion Box. In
this exercise you will be asked to go back to your Energy Conversion Box, open the lid, and
perceive the first radiation of fear you encounter. You then pull the fear out of the box and
move it away from you – allowing it to flow upward and away like a bubble floating upward in
water. With the fear gone, you will be asked to perceive the emotion the fear covered and
release it by bubbling it away. Free of the fear and emotion, you will perceive the clean energy
that was hidden or covered by the fear and emotion, and be asked to pull that clean energy back
into your being. This process will be repeated twice. Here are some important points to
consider: 1) You do not have to worry about, or plan for, what fears or emotions will come up
for you when you open your Energy Conversion Box. Simply open the box and see what comes
up for you. Trust that a larger part of yourself knows what you are ready to uncover. 2) If you
open the box and find nothing, bubble „nothing” away. The process can be working very

effectively on deeper levels. In this (or any other) case, always pull clean energy into you as a
final step. 3) Please do not get into a semantic argument with yourself about whether or not fear
is an emotion. That’s a trap that can interfere with successful utilization of this valuable and
important exercise. For the purpose of this exercise, consider the word „fear” to denote the
primary emotional charge related to a particular self-imposed block or limit and the word
„emotion” to denote associated emotional charges related to that limit. 4) The verbal
instructions for the final step suggest that you perceive, „the memory, the event that was hidden
and covered by the fear and emotion.” You may find that a specific event in your life comes up,
or you may discover a memory of what it was like before you developed the encrustation of
fear and emotion that limit your potential. Here is an example of how the process of energy
conversion can work: You may go to your box and the first fear you perceive is the fear of
speaking up in groups. Once you bubble that fear away, you might encounter the emotion of
embarrassment. Having released the emotion, you might perceive how you felt as a small child
who was naturally willing to share the wonder of a new discovery with other people. You could
then recapture, or reclaim, your ability to communicate with and share your wholeness with
others.
This process is not intended to be a quick-fix or one-shot panacea. Most of us have many layers
of encrustation that hold us back. But if you deliberately choose to move beyond your
limitations, you can. It’s not always easy and may require numerous efforts. Yet using this
process can certainly smooth out a normally difficult path. By releasing self-imposed limits
and recharging with the clean, pure energy that is naturally yours, you may find a new freedom.
With such freedom comes a new ability to explore and a sense of limitless possibilities.

Preparatory Process
You will move to Focus l0 on your own. To do so, first use your Energy Conversion Box with
careful consideration. Then, when the chanting begins, do your Resonant Tuning. After the
Resonant Tuning sounds, pop your REBAL, state your affirmation, and move to Focus 10.

Energy Conversion
Open your box and perceive the first radiation of fear you encounter. Pull the fear out of the
box and move it away from you like a bubble floating upward in water. With the fear gone,
perceive the emotion that the fear covered, bubbling it away, releasing what you will not need
again. Now, free of fear and emotion, perceive the clean energy of the memory, the event
hidden and covered by the fear and emotion. Pull that clean energy back into your being.
Repeat this process twice again, close your box, and relax in Focus 10 before you return to C-1.

Discovery #5: Exploration Sleep
Use this tape after you are completely comfortable with tapes 1 through 4.
Out-of-body exploration in this exercise is based on the concept that sleep is a natural Gateway
into other states of reality, other energy systems. Entering these nonphysical states requires a
nonphysical consciousness which can move „out” of one’s physical body. Therefore, for this
exercise, you should be in a comfortable position for sleeping. Ecstasy, once meaning „to stand
outside of oneself,” lost this literal Greek translation long ago. It has come to be associated with
the feeling of being transported; the feeling of icredible freedom and rapture that accompanies a

return to our most natural conditions. Reaching these conditions of being „outside of oneself”
and of euphoria is easy and effortless in sleep, although seldom remembered. Bridging different
levels of consciousness, this exercise will help you bring into C-1 a common and natural
process experienced during sleep.

Out-of-Body Exercises During Sleep
In Focus 10, you will re-experience and remember the out-of-body processes you have used
before in sleep. Think how nice it would be to float out and away. Then turn and slowly roll
over like a log floating in water. Easily detached, float up, remaining calm and serene. Float
down, turn and roll back, returning to your starting point.
Move into normal, natural, restful sleep by counting from eleven to twenty. Repeat and
remember this exercise in the sleep state. To work consciously with this and other out-of-body
techniques, use Discovery #6: Free Flow 10, with its instructions, or refer back to this exercise.
As you continue with the Gateway Experience, Freedom (Wave III) offers you additional outof-body exercises.

Fadeout
The Hemi-Sync signals will fade at the end of the tape, leaving you in natural sleep.
Encoding
Sleep.
Discovery #6: Free Flow 10
Use this tape after you are completely comfortable with tapes 1 through 5.

Open Exploration
This exercise is the culmination of Discovery: your energy, intent, and beliefs will determine
both the intensity and the extent of your exploration. It is your opportunity to develop and
perform your own purpose in Focus 10. It may be helpful to verbalize the purpose to yourself,
and write it in the most succinct, straightforward manner possible. Have that purpose clearly in
mind as you begin. The Gateway Experience is designed to provide partici-pants with a variety
of methods for consciousness exploration. Note that certain methods seem to be intimately
linked to specific means of perception, thus relying heavily on one’s perception of kinesthetic,
visual, auditory, and/or intuitive cues. If you feel tingles and twitches, and there is very little
change in your perception of „blackness,” use your natural ways of perceiving. For instance,
allow your perception to move kinesthetically, rather than being frustrated by a lack of visual
imagery. „Getting there” is a misnomer. You are already there. Remain open and sensitive to
available energy systems. As your commitment to self-discovery deepens, your 10-State will
also deepen, and many new types of exploration will open for you.
Whatever is discovered in Focus 10 can be returned to in Focus 10, since your energy has
already located that place or pattern. Feelings, patterns of energy, symbols, or messages can be
explored and clarified after this exercise. You may do so by using some specific cue (such as an
emotional part of the experience) that stands out in your mind as a key to reopen the entire
experience.

Explore from fresh perspectives. Even if you choose to re-examine a previous experience, do so
from a sense of wonder and newness rather than from a sense of trying to recreate an identical
situation.

Guidance
In Focus 10, seek only what you really want to know, and be responsible for knowing, since
whatever is received becomes a part of your life. You do not need to know the way to
guidance. Choose only to be guided. Expectations of when and by which path guidance should
come may block the knowledge you seek.
A sense of thanksgiving is an acknowledgement that you have received from a source outside
your conscious boundaries of self. Such thanksgiving has an antenna-like effect on energy and
communication. Gratitude inspires a spirit of communication and union.

Fast Re-entry
There is no actual countdown on this tape. You will return to full; physical, waking
consciousness by simply thinking of the number one.

Free Flow Methods of Exploration
Answering Questions, Problem Solving, Messages
In Focus 10, place your question or problem at the center of your consciousness, and push it
out, or let it flow strongly and surely out in all directions and in all ways, and then release it.
You can also use this method in C-1 with the One-Breath Technique. Inhale vital energy as you
think „ten,” ask your question as you „hold,” and then send the question or problem out from
your center of consciousness, and release it as you exhale. Allow the answer to come to you in
its own way, and in its own time.
Your desire to know, the clarity of your intent, and the intensity with which you send out that
desire, are keys to what you receive and the way you will receive it. A sense of thanksgiving
seals the experience. Conventional C-1 relationships between questions and answers, problems
and solutions, tend to dissolve as new Focus 10 perspectives change the very nature of the
original question or problem. For instance, in the case of the Energy Conversion Box that
wouldn’t open, the problem was the tendency to use force, rather than a stuck box-top.
Recog-nizing and responding to this situation is a Focus 10 problem-solving dynamic. The C-1
problem is often not the problem, decisions are seldom restricted to the apparent C-1
alternatives, and a different question frequently provides the answer. And the opposite can also
be valid in Focus 10 – -some answers or solutions appear obvious or simple.
Experiment with creative monologue techniques in Focus 10: give your box a voice and ask
why it won’t open, „become” your box and describe yourself, or let your box speak to you in
one ear at a time, and perhaps it will have a hidden mess¹ge for either the analytical or the
creative you. Our biggest problem may well be, „What is my problem?” and our biggest
question, „What question should I be asking?” If guidance enters Focus 10 from an energy
system or reality more comprehensive than C-1, we severely limit the parameters of our
resources by framing our questions or problems from our C-1 perspective. So approach this in a
more general manner and ask, „What is the most important message I can receive and
understand at this time?” Or be specific in a big way. Ask, „Who am I?” or „What is my

purpose here, and how can I best accomplish it at this time?” Humor can be an instant
perspective-giver. Look for it in Focus 10, especially manifesting as puns. (The sixth chapter of
Ann Faraday’s book, Dream Game, on „Punny Things” is a wonderful resource.) For instance,
a woman in a Gateway Voyage considered her Guides to be without answers and real lemons.
As she drifted deeply into an exercise, she found a young man with a pitcher of lemonade
sitting near her. He looked extremely bored with her. Only later did she realize that the
„pitcher” was worth a thousand words about the kind of „aid” you get when, down deep, you
consider your Guides to be „lemons.”

Landscaping
Just as Focus 3 becomes a signpost on the way to Focus 10, some people landscape the path
they travel, either deliberately or spontaneously. As an example, one woman in a Gateway
Voyage ran across a hot beach at the count of two (undirected energy), balanced on a rock at
three (Hemi-Sync), leapt into the air at four (new or different environment), arched into a dive
at five (turning point), grew a mermaid’s tail and long flowing hair at six (transformation), dove
into the water at seven (returning home), swam through dark blue--green water at eight (at
home), plunged deep over a sea-ridge at nine (going deeper), and at ten her body was numb,
deep, and perfectly still (Focus 10). There are no right places for certain things to happen, only
your places for different things to happen within you. Landscaping may be consistent or not: as
your 10-State changes, so will your perceptions, and perhaps your landscape.

Explore
Experience a deepening of your 10-State as you count from one to ten, and let that point
become one on a new scale, and move to ten again, and again, and again.
You may explore various forms of energy. For example, perceive yourself standing under a
waterfall and then standing in the sunlight and note if you can perceive different forms of
energy pouring down and over you. Or consider merging with a rock or crystal and sense its
power to pattern or structure energy, then build a pyramid or geometric structure around you
and sense the energy pattern. Be creative. Use your REBAL to resonate, and perhaps
communicate, with a tree or a flower. You may also wish to explore, and commu-nicate with,
nonphysical energy or energy systems.

Need Grounding? Try These Basic Techniques
A few people have not felt quite awake and alert after listening to the exercises. If this ever
happens to you, ground yourself by doing one or more of the following:
•
•
•
•
•

Slowly count yourself back to one.
Drink cool water immediately after the tape is over.
Take a cold shower or splash cold water on your face, neck, and wrists.
Weather permitting, walk barefoot outdoors, take deep breaths, and release all excess
energy through your feet, letting the earth stabilize your energy.
Let a tree help ground you. Place your back against a tree and visualize energy flowing out
of the top of your head to the branches above, then let the energy flow out of the soles of
your feet to the tree’s roots.

WAVE II: THRESHOLD
In Threshold you will be introduced to, and work with, Focus 12, the state of expanded
awareness. You will also reinforce and expand your Focus 10 (mind awake/body asleep) skills.
Each Wave of the Gateway Experience is based on the Wave(s) before it. Threshold builds
directly on Discovery tools and techniques, as well as on information in the Discovery
instructions. Therefore, the exercises in Threshold are effective only if you have completed
Discovery. Any use of these exercises without such prior experience is not recommended.

Focus 12: Overview
Focus 12 is a state of expanded awareness: a high energy state where you can become more
conscious of inner resources and guidance. Many techniques discussed as part of Discovery
may also be applied with specific Focus 12 tapes. Using these techniques at higher energy
levels often produces entirely new experiences.
As with Focus 10, in Focus 12 you will find that you do not need to know the way to guidance.
Choose only to be guided. Not everyone clearly hears voices, sees visions, or feels kinesthetic
responses like we hear, see, and feel in ordinary consciousness. Rarely do we perceive
nonphysical energy in exactly the same way we perceive in our physical, waking state. Often,
there is a knowing, a gestalt, or telepathic comprehension that we normally translate into verbal
language. Through trust and patience, and continuing to invest energy in the process of selfexploration, you will learn to perceive more clearly. Sometimes this happens slowly, step by
step, and sometimes this happens dramatically and suddenly, like water breaking though a dam.

Threshold #1: introduction to Focus 12
Trust this exercise and let it happen – enjoy whatever comes to you. Effort is often
counterproductive, and analyzing the 12-State is only appropriate after the experience and not
during it. „Getting there” is a misnomer. If you allow the experi­ence to unfold rather than
work for it, the audio signals “take” you into Focus 12, as you count from ten to twelve.
Remain open and receptive to change, and as your commitment to self-discovery deepens, your
12-State will a cleepen, and you will explore in many new ways.
Encoding
To Focus 12
Threshold #2: Problem Solving
Take a problem or question into Focus 12, place it at the center of your consciousness (which,
for example, may be in your heart, abdomen, or head), and push it out, or let it flow out into
your total awareness. Then release it. The best answer or solution will come back to you in its
own way and in its own time. Frequently, this will happen during your tape experience. Equally
valid, however, is an answer or solution that may come at some later time, in another place.
To seek solutions in this high energy state is the essence of this exercise: receiving will come to
those who have asked. Your desire to know, the clarity of your question, and the intensity of
your asking are keys to what you receive and the way you receive it. Gratitude amplifies the
process.
Conventional relationships between questions and answers, problems and solutions, tend to
dissolve as new Focus 12 perspectives change the very nature of the original question or

problem. For instance, remember the man who couldn’t open his Energy Conversion Box?
(Please see Energy Conversion Box instructions on page 20.) The recognition of his tendency to
use force in most situations allowed his box to open easily. Thus, the assumed problem (a
locked box) is often not the actual problem (tendency to use force). Solutions are seldom
restricted to ordinary alternatives, and a different question frequently provides the answer. On
the other hand, some answers and solutions appear so obvious or simple that you may tend to
discount them. Don’t. There is often great power in the simple and the obvious. If, at first, you
feel as if you’re creating your own answers, gently acknowledge that if guidance is in any way
connected to a more complete or higher aspect of your total self, then guidance would naturally
seem to be coming from yourself, and therefore would seem deeply familiar.
As you learned in Discovery, your biggest problem may well be, „What is my problem?” and
your biggest question, „What question should I be asking?” If you remain puzzled about what
to ask, approach this exercise from another point of view and ask, „What is the most important
information I need to know at this moment?” And please remember, if guidance enters your
awareness from energy systems or realities more comprehensive than ordinary consciousness,
you severely limit the parameters of your resources by framing all of your questions and
problems from your waking perspective. And remember the value of receiving guidance in the
form of humor and puns. (For review, please see Free Flow Methods of Exploration on page
33.)
Experiment with creative techniques. If something isn’t working, change what you are doing.
Use Focus 12 problem-solving techniques to be innovative, to be creative, and to find solutions
that best suit you.
Encoding
Problem Solving
Threshold #3: One-Month Patterning
This exercise introduces you to a powerful tool for taking charge of your life. You may have
already encountered techniques similar to this. We call it Patterning.
This exercise works from the basic assumption that thoughts manifest as things, and that which
we think, we become. Accordingly, it’s not a matter of whether we pattern, but of how intensely
and how deliberately we choose what we think. As we deliberately make these choices in high
energy states, our patterns emerge around us reshaping our lives with a speed and intensity
unavailable in ordinary consciousness. To learn more about this important tool, at least consider
that the patterning process is a possibility.
To create a pattern, think, feel, or imagine that which you desire to become a part of your life.
Patterning functions like problem solving: place the pattern at the center of your consciousness
and push it out or let it flow strongly and surely out in all directions and in all ways. Then
release it. Releasing your pattern is very important. Doing so will assist the emergence of the
pattern in your life. One way to determine if you have released your pattern is if you have a
sense of ease and detachment regarding it.
You can use the patterning process to create or enhance many areas of your life: your physical
self, your mental self, your emotional self, and your total self; for where you want to be, what
you want to be doing, and what you want to accomplish. There is nothing inherently wrong
with asking for material things. It does require a change in concept if you’re from the school of
economic thought that says this is a world of scarce resources. If so, please consider a concept

that’s very different – that this is a universe of unlimited abundance – and there is nothing
wrong with asking for a share of that abundance.
Here are some key points that will help you make the most of patterning:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

•

•
•

Pattern only in the present tense. For example, „I am now receiving...” If you pattern in the
future tense, it can be’ like a sign in a supermarket window that says, „FREE SODA
TOMORROW” – a tomorrow that never comes.
Use „I” in your patterning statement and perceive yourself as an active part of the pattern,
so it doesn’t wind up happening all around you and not to you.
Pattern only for yourself.
Be clear about what you want. Do you want a new house or to be happy where you live? Do
you want to lose ten pounds, or to feel better about yourself?
Be specific. The more detail you put into your pattern, the more likely you are to get what
you’re asking for.
Be sure to ask for what you really want, because you’ll likely get exactly what you ask for!
Put some feeling and conviction into it. Strong emotion will vitalize and reinforce your
intention. Then let it go. Any pattern set in Focus 12 can be changed, reinforced, or
cancelled in Focus 12. However, don’t keep checking on it or changing it because of doubts,
fear, etc. A fisherman has to leave his bait in the water for a while to get a bite, just as when
you plant a seed, you don’t keep digging it up to see how it is growing.
For starters, it might be a good idea to pattern smaller, reasonable requests. For example, if
you pattern the first time for $10 million, at least a part of you is likely to doubt that it will
really work. If you start by patterning for $50 to $100 and prove to yourself it works, then
other, perhaps bigger, patterns are going to come more easily.
Don’t specify how your request will be fulfilled. Let the universe or your total self decide
and direct that.
It is always a good idea to qualify your pattern, asking that it work only for the good of your
total self. This exercise is designed for a one-month patterning cycle. However, you can
override the time, requesting that patterns be fulfilled in other cycles: a week, a year, by
your next birthday. Or you can simply release the pattern to be fulfilled in its own time.
Please look at this exercise as an introduction to patterning. Then carefully consider how
you would like to use the process, strengthening it with the components of this exercise.
The process of patterning may turn some of your deepest assumptions into questions, which
is also a Gateway to freedom.

Threshold #4: Color Breathing
An ideal way to link psyche and soma, or mind and body, in Focus 10 is to explore the degree
to which colors resonate with, and thus activate, your own energy. You can then quickly and
easily develop and control your physical and nonphysical energies. Once you are familiar with
this technique, experiment with other colors, and other purposes. There are many ways besides
visualization to perceive color mentally. For instance, you may perceive it as sound, as
vibrations, or as other sensations. One Gateway partici-pant, blind since birth, experienced
different colors as different textures.
During this exercise, you will inhale vibrant, sparkling energy. Perceive bright green as you
hold this energy within you. Then exhale, moving calm, cleansing green energy down through

your body. This will push any harmful emotion out and away from you, reducing all stress and
tension as you feel calm and serene.
Use the same process with vibrant red to recharge your physical body and for acts requiring
speed, strength, and coordination. Perceive radiant, bright white light pouring down from a
source above you into the palms of your hands as you inhale, feeling it spread through your
entire system. This is „energy, food,” which can nourish you on physical, mental, emo­tional,
and spiritual levels. Use vibrant purple to heal, restore, and balance the physical body, by
sending purple to that part of your body requiring help as you say in your mind: „Heal,
balance.” In healing, you are creating or maintaining a healthy, body. Therefore, never energize
the actual problem. Even when you energize a body area in need of repair, end your healing
process by visualizing, or otherwise perceiving, your body as well, whole, and perfect. By
doing so, you are not reinforcing the ailment; you are directing your resources to build or
maintain sound health.
Because we live in time-space, we typically, think in terms of sending energy. As you become
familiar with „Color Breathing,” consider that this method of healing is a merging of energy.
Furthermore, assume that you can gather energy from an inexhaustible source; therefore, you
can purposefully and freely expend energy.
It is also possible to merge your energy with the energy of someone else. Remember that when
providing energy for another person, it is their innate right to choose whether or not, or how, to
use it. Rather than intend their purposes for them, even if you think that purpose is „getting
well,” simply offer the energy with the intention that it be beneficial and constructive to the
person’s total self. By doing so, you will be respecting their purpose, a purpose you may not be
aware of at the time. At the end of the tape, you will move to Focus 12 and reinforce the
process of patterning, affirming that the patterns you build in your mind and release into your
expanded consciousness will immediately begin to form and develop around you.

Encoding
Stress Reduction, Physical Strength and Agility, Energy Food, Healing, and

Patterning
Threshold #5: Energy Bar Tool (EBT)
„Power sticks” abound in both our history and mythology as links between human and spiritual
forces, or as connectors between physical and nonphysical energies. Moses turned his staff into
a serpent. Kings, queens, pharaohs, and high priests carried symbolic maces and scepters.
Excalibur led King Arthur into battle, and Merlin focused his power through a wand. Diana, the
Roman goddess of the moon and of hunting, carried her bow and arrows. And in the Star Wars
films, light sabers linked the Jedi Knights to The Force.
Find or create your own Energy Bar Tool (EBT) in Focus 10 – one that is personal enough to
share your identity, and through which you can induce or gather, focus and direct nonphysical
energies. To create and charge your EBT, you will extend a dot of light into a bar, turning it on
and off as you allow the process to speed up until the bar is pulsing like a strobe. As the speed
increases, deliberately disassociate yourself from the words „on” and „off,” and from the pace
of your breathing. Then begin to make your EBT thicker and thinner. No matter how vague it
may seem at first, simply concentrate and focus on your EBT and feel it develop. Sense the

charged, electrical vibration of warmth. You may feel it as a total body sensa-tion, as localized,
or as moving and spreading. Allow this pulsing, vibrational energy to build in intensity. Excess
energy, such as a sense of heat, can be released by moving it out and away with Resonant
Tuning.
Many people simply use their hands as energy bar tools, building and sensing the pulse patterns
within themselves. You can also direct energy from any other body location.
Notice that you control only your own energy, and you can attune to, or harmonize with,
external, energies. Thus, you establish resonance with, rather than control over, other people,
animals, plants, and even the earth itself.
As you explore energy systems, you will find many uses for your EBT. In Wave III, Freedom,
you will explore its potential for Remote Viewing. You can also let it grow large enough to
become a vortex or tunnel and dive through it to explore further. You can place one end in your
Energy Conversion Box and see what happens; or use it as a beacon or antenna to attract
guidance or other intelligence. Give it a voice, or allow it to shift shape. Even though you lead
it in the beginning, you may find it leading you before long. These are intended to be
suggestions, not limitations. With practice, the forms and uses of your EBT are limitless. Find
a place to keep your EBT so it will always be there for you, knowing that its power is
reciprocal: as you recharge it, it will recharge you.
Encoding
Memory, to Focus 10, and Return to C-1
Threshold #6: Living Body Map (LBM)
By creating a Living Body Map (LBM) as an energy tool, you can learn to balance and
strengthen your physical body, as well as recharge and energize it. In this exercise, you use
energy to influence energy, assuming that the physical will automatically respond. Since maps
represent the territory objectively, you create both the perspective and the detach-ment useful in
healing.
Think about or visualize the outline of your physical body in sparkling white light, as if it were
a map of you – a totally nonphysical, pure-energy „you.”
To think an image, even a color, is to create it, and that thought-image can have as much power
as any visual-image. To be a visualizer means you have a nice feedback system, but one that is
not a necessary condition for working with energy states.
You will change your bright white energy map to red, representing your circulatory system,
blue to represent your nervous system, yellow for your organs and glandular system, and finally
orange for your muscle and bone structure.
By placing your LBM over your physical body, you will be able to sense any dim or flickering
places. As you do this, let bright purple healing energy flow from your Energy Bar Tool to any
such places, thereby merging these energies. Do so until your whole energy body is even and
balanced, sparkling and white.
Then, starting at the top of your LBM, wash and bathe it completely with bright purple energy,
washing out all impurities and recharging every part of your body.
Repeat this procedure as you charge your LBM in sequence from sparkling white to red, blue,
yellow, and orange, healing and recharging each system independently.

Encoding
Relax
The One-Breath Technique
With practice, each of the energy tools you create, explore, and use in the Gateway Experience
can become available to you quickly and powerfully in ordinary consciousness. The more you
use them, the more effective they become.
Simply inhale vibrant, sparkling energy, and activate your desired energy tool on the exhale.
You can do this without anyone noticing. To go to Focus, think „ten” or „twelve” as you inhale
vital energy, and move to Focus 10 or Focus 12 as you exhale. Extend your REBAL, then ask a
question, or create a pattern with one breath. For example, at the first sign of any unwanted
energy, inhale and send calm, soothing green surging through your body. Experiment. If you’re
sleepy while driving at night, breathe the vibrant red light of tail lights or stoplights, sending the
strength and vitality of red throughout your system. If you need energy at any level – physical,
emotional, mental, or spiritual – breathe energy food from a source above you into your palms,
allowing it fill your entire body.

WAVE III: FREEDOM
Freedom provides you with exercises specifically devel-oped to make the methods for
perceiving your nonphysical energy a comfortable and joyous experience. Completion of this
Wave will be a major step in gaining conscious control of the energy system that is you. The
exercises in Freedom are effective only if you have completed both the Discovery and
Threshold Wave exercises. Any use of these exercises without such prior experience is not
recommended.

Out-of-Body Experience
During an out-of-body experience (OBE), consciousness is localized or separated away from
one’s physical body. Occasionally this awareness is localized in more than one place. For
example, it is possible to remain aware of one’s physical body as well as the nonphysical, or
second, body. It is also possible to separate from the second body, thus having a third localized
awareness (for further information, please refer to Robert Monroe’s book, Far Journeys).
Often characteristic of an OBE, one may experience dis-tant locations (from one’s physical
body) by actually having one’s nonphysical body at that location. By contrast, with Remote
Viewing (Freedom #2), one’s consciousness is expanded directionally, toward a certain goal.
Hence, within one’s immediate awareness, one may envelop – and thereby become conscious
of – people, places, and/or events that are physically distant. Other variations between physical
and nonphysical reality are readily apparent. For example, in C-1, you can choose whether or
not a thought results in action. On the other hand, during the early stages of developing the
OBE, a thought becomes the action itself. If you so much as have a passing thought about a
person or location, you are apt to find yourself at that precise spot – probably within the blink
of an eye. With experience, you will learn to distinguish between thought and intent. As a
result, you can pause during an OBE to think and reflect. Then, when you link your thought
with your intent, you will travel instantly to the person or location reflecting your thought.
Furthermore, since so much of our thinking is influenced by habit, during an OBE we’re apt to
find ourselves looking and behaving as we do while in our physical bodies. That is, you might
perceive your second body as having arms, legs, a head, etc. At the same time, it is possible to

experience the second body as another physical (possibly nonhuman) form, as a sphere of light,
or even as a nondescript mass of energy. Thinking habits also apply to fear. If one’s
consciousness is still attached to physical reality during an OBE, one may experience a reality
shock, or a fear of being separated from the physical self or body. However, if one has let go of
physical habits to some extent, and is directed more toward experiencing nonphysical energy,
an OBE typically feels very natural and offers a sense of unbounded freedom. Theoretically,
we can go out-of-body during sleep (please „refer to Discovery #5: Exploration, Sleep on page
29). As such, the goal would then be learning how to perform this natural process consciously.
Some people never know how they separate from or re-enter their physical bodies: they simply
find themselves out or back. Others use specific techniques. In both instances, our research
indicates that a conscious OBE may be one result of achieving a high energy state. Therefore,
we recommend that you begin developing OBEs by learning to create high energy states. One
effective way to do this is to incorporate into your daily life what you learn by using the
Gateway Experience.
The next step is to practice various separation techniques. The exercises in Freedom will help
you learn more about OBE separation processes. Using these techniques, you will discover
more distinctions between physical and nonphysical energies. Perceiving the separation
between these energies is a major step in learning more about your personal makeup, in
addition to learning more about how to induce an OBE. Then, through patience and relaxed
effort, you can explore these energies – gaining experience and knowledge regarding how to
use them.
Experiment until you find a technique that feels good and then practice it. If you feel stiff, find
yourself unable to move, or feel as though you’ve lost complete contact with your physical
body, you can always return to C-1. To do so, say in your mind or think the number one,
moving the fingers of your right hand, and you will be in C-1, physically wide awake and alert.
This process is like putting fire under a kettle: water will convert to steam and expand or rise.
When the energy builds suddenly, separation can occur with incredible speed and possibly with
roaring or rushing sounds. From this point, the action, the adventure, the experience are totally,
solely yours. You may wish to explore the solar system, map the terrains of and between
physical and nonphysical realities, develop friendships with nonphysical entities, or simply fly
over the nearest treetops. The possi-bilities are endless, governed only by who you are and how
you wish to grow.

Freedom #1: Liftoff
This exercise is designed to help you become completely calm and comfortable from a
perspective that has little or nothing to do with your physical body. Repeat it until the process is
so familiar that you can perform it at will when you reach Focus 10. At this point in your
training, you should be completely familiar with the Resonant Energy Balloon (REBAL). As a
refresher, go back to the Discovery instructions on page 25 and review the REBAL. The
REBAL is such a valuable tool that once you understand its possibilities, its use will become an
automatic procedure. This exercise demonstrates how the REBAL relates to you-not simply to
your physical body.
„Liftoff” guides you through the process of getting your REBAL well formed, and then floating
a short distance away from your physical body, with your awareness inside. This does not

necessarily imply that you are actually separating from your physical body, but it does give you
the perspective of such action and movement. Thus, „Liftoff” offers you something very
important – that perspective. Floating up is often associated with thoughts of flying, gliding, or
soaring. Like standing in an elevator, you rise without effort by feeling as though you were
relaxing or „settling down.” Center yourself in the you that is nonphys-ical energy, rather than
the you of your physical body. Use this exercise until it is very familiar to you. You will also
find that it provides the assurance of your ability, to return safely and easily. Once you are
secure with this knowledge, it is quite easy to move away farther than the exercise provides.
Practice with „Liftoff” – and have fun!
Freedom #2: Remote Viewing
Remote Viewing
One method of extending your consciousness in order to perceive distant people, places, and
events, is to place your Energy Bar Tool at the center of your consciousness and let it stretch or
flow to the person, place, or event you wish to perceive. The perception of space is different in
Focus 10 such that the awareness of a location or person can flow into, or merge with, your
awareness. This is almost like calling that person or place to you, or having your awareness
reach out to that person or place.
Focus 10 is not subject to the C-1 concepts of time and space. Therefore,
reference to time and space while Remote Viewing is necessary only in
order to determine the appro-priate time and place in which to immerse your awareness. At a
Gateway session in Richmond, Virginia, a young man „saw” a very distinctive red car in front
of the building. Quickly going outside after the tape, he was crushed not to find the red car.
After lunch, as he was walking back to the building, the red car was there, exactly as he had
seen it. This shows the ease of Remote Viewing, and also establishes the need for being time
conscious. Experiment. Nave a friend select a specific location in their home or office where a
target object can be placed. It can be a window sill, an empty table top, or an out-of-the-way
counter. Ensure the object stands alone as a target. As you envelop the object with your
awareness, explore how you perceive, how your perceptions work. Are you more apt to sense
geometric shapes, colors, or textures? What makes you say specific words about the things you
perceive? What are the core feelings? Does an object’s function affect your ability to resonate
with it (for example, can you perceive apples but not cigarettes)?
Scientists Harold Puthoff
and Russell Targ define the hazards of interpreting versus describing in their book, Mind
Reach. In it, they reported that one subject interpreted a cement rectangle filled with water as a
swimming pool, and scored a miss. The cement rectangle with water in it was a sewage
processing plant.
Gateway stories concerning Remote Viewing are legion. A man reported being stuck in a dark,
dank, underground cave, thereby thinking he missed the exercise. The target was an old shoe. A
woman got lost in a blizzard when we used an almost empty flour sack in which to place our
target. A man felt silly to report finding a quarter moon in daylight when he tried to see in a
paper bag. The target was a lemon wedge in a teacup. As you see, Remote Viewing has much to
teach us
about our assumptions, as well as our perceptions.
This exercise provides you with the means by which you can perform actual demonstrations
utilizing the energy tools you now have available. Once you have acquired the technique, you
can develop your own ways of using it. To become familiar with this technique, you may first

want to listen to the tape prior to actually performing this experiment. Then, in order to prepare
for this experiment, you will need to do the following:
1. Obtain a clean, white paper bag. The bag should be large enough to hold small objects.
2. Arrange with a friend to have a small table or cleared area set up at a distance (at least not in
the same room) from where you will be listening to the exercise.
3. Your friend should be someone with whom you can verify the experiment. This person
should also be separated by some distance from you. Again, this means not in the same
room. In fact, your friend can be several thousand miles away since distance makes no
difference in Remote Viewing. Have your friend describe the location of the white bag. And
ensure that you can verify by phone or otherwise the results of your experiment with this
person.
4. Arrange with your friend to select a small object, or target; to place in the bag. This can be a
specific object or a photograph of a person, place, or thing. It is important that the object
selected remain unknown to you.
5. The experiment should be set for a specific time agreed upon by you and your friend, and
should have a specific or set duration – usually the length of the exercise. Until you are
proficient, you might want to allow more time to make notes of your experiences following
the exercise and prior to contact with your friend.
6. Remember the Energy Bar Tool (EBT) that you have devel-oped. This is a technique that
will enable you to perform Remote Viewing. Begin this exercise with the knowledge that
you will use your EBT, and with the idea of the target already having been placed inside the
white bag by your friend.
7. At the conclusion of „Remote Viewing,” write down the perceptions that you have
concerning the target. Explore why you feel the way you do a bout those perceptions. Pay
particular attention to why you arrived at any conclusions about the target. Write down the
information you will give to your friend. Finally, get in touch with your friend and
deter-mine if your results are accurate. If you cannot reach the person immediately by
phone, request that your friend forward you a written report of the target for verification. As
with most learning, prompt feedback accelerates the development of Remote Viewing
skills.
8. Review your notes. You may find yourself more proficient in one part of the exercise than
another. If so, by all means repeat the process and concentrate on the section that is most
effective and build from there. The entire pattern may not work well for you the first time.
Review your inaccurate æonclusions and try to understand why they may have be in error.
Be sure to make special note of your accurate conclusions.
9. Always log your results. Patterns will emerge over time. Try to look at, and understand,
why these patterns are a part of your life. As you work with „Remote Viewing,” try to
integrate your newfound strengths into your daily life. And remember, there is no failure in
psychic functioning, only a greater understanding of our awareness.
Encoding
Memory
Freedom #3: Vectors
„Vectors” provides reference points to enable you to repeat any explorations with or without
using these exercises. It helps you go and return with a sense of direction.
This exercise uses three-dimensional space for such ref-erence points, which may be a little
misleading when working with nonphysical energy. Perception utilizing nonphysical energy is

not limited to ordinary concepts of time and space. However, it is a good way to learn this
process of establishing direction – by relating it to the location of your physical body. As you
progress, you will begin to perceive extensions that are naturally developed by the „Vectors”
system. Many of these you will develop on your own, utilizing what is con-venient for you.
The exercise guides you in conceptualizing the face of a clock. Twelve o’clock is always just
above the top of your head. Six o’clock is always just below the bottoms of your feet. In the
first step of the exercise, three o’clock is just outside your left hip, and nine o’clock is just
beyond your right hip.
During the first section, you learn to extend or move your perception around the face of the
clock. You begin at twelve above your head, move out and around to your left side at three
o’clock, then to below your feet at six o’clock, then around to nine o’clock just beyond your
right hip. Notice the feelings associated with perceiving beyond your physical body. Detect
any interesting or unusual features while focusing in a particular direction.
The second part of the exercise rotates the face of the clock ninety degrees. The number twelve
still remains above your head. However, number three on the face is directly out in front of
your hips and abdomen. The number nine, therefore, is directly behind you, just beyond your
hips and waist.
Starting at twelve o’clock above your head, for the third , part of this exercise, you are guided
forward and outward to the new three o’clock position just in front of your feet, then outward
and upward to the new nine position which is just beyond and away from the back of your waist
and hips. From there the movement is upward and inward to the twelve position at the top of
your head.
In each of these steps, you move around the face of thc clock and then return to the original
position. As these maneuvers are performed, note any significant changes in your personal
awareness and remember this change in relation to the position on the clock. Also, as you
become proficient, you will learn to establish new vectors, such as a three o’clock position
halfway between the three to the side and the three to the front. Thus, you can have many points
of exploration in this three-dimensional pattern. It is important that you remember and log in
your notes a vector that you find easy, comfortable, stimulating, or even as a source of
information.
„Vectors” may require several repetitions before you become proficient with the method.
Certainly, the more you utilize it, the more effective it will become. Eventually, it can become a
very automatic pattern in any exploration.

Freedom #4: Five Questions
This exercise will be the start of a process that you will utilize often on your own. It poses five
questions for which you seek answers. These, of course, are only the beginning. Beyond this,
you can provide your own questions of a more direct and specific nature. Here are the five
questions that you will ask in Focus 12. They are given to you during the exercise, but it is
helpful to review them in advance.
1.
2.
3.
4.

Who am I?
Where and who was I before I entered this physical being?
What is my purpose for this existence in physical matter reality?
What action can I now take to serve this purpose best?

5. What is the most important message that I can receive and understand at this point in my
existence?
The answers to these questions will most likely not be perceived as a spoken or written
word. They will probably be in the form of a series of pictures, a sense of feeling or
knowing, or other methods of perception you have been working with. Keep in mind that
these kinds of responses, whether they are from your total self, or from an external source,
are natural. It is then up to you to translate this nonverbal communication into time/space
words and visual representations. Repeat „Five Questions” if you need to understand a
particular answer better, or for clarification, or if you did not obtain an answer in the first
run-through. Effectively performing this exercise will guide you to a deeper understanding
of your total self.

Freedom #5: Energy Food
This exercise trains you in a method to restore depleted energy. You will obtain energy in a way
other than the ordinary method of eating. Nourishment will come from the very energy that
you have been using and exploring during these exercises.
The method you will learn is designed to be applied in C-1 after you return from this exercise.
Thus the exercise, itself, is simply practice, an encoding of the process, rather than actual
application. What you will learn is that by simply extending your hands outward, palms up, you
will perceive, absorb, and store energy. It is as simple as that, and can be used frequently as the
desire arises.
The application of this new tool is similar to many of the others in the Gateway Experience.
Some people will retain and utilize it after only one session. Others may require two or three
sessions. In order to evaluate your progress proper conduct tests with the method shortly after
each time you take the exercise. Notice if you feel better, if you feel more energized. Once you
begin to achieve results, you no longer need to use the tape. This ability will then have become
a part of you.
Encoding
Energy food
Freedom #6: First-Stage Separation
„First-Stage Separation” enables you to take a major step in having conscious control of the
total energy system that is you. Many of the previous exercises have been aimed at making this
particular exercise more understandable, comfortable, and joyous. This exercise guides you
through five different methods o disassociation from your physical body. That is, you will learn
to make more distinctions between your physical and nonphysical energies. This will better
enable you to separate your awareness of these energies, thereby localizing your awareness in
either your physical or second body. As with other tools, it is your option to select the method
most comfortable for you. In your own way, you may wish to combine one or more of these
methods. Each has been used successfully many times by, participants through the years. As
you learn these methods, you will be guided through the following processes:
1. Focus on the nonphysical energy within your physical body. Much like a log floating in
water, slowly and easily rotate and roll this energy. Do so until what seems to be „surface
tension” releases and you rotate freely as if there were an axis running directly through the
length of your body. The moment you feel such release, it is important to release the

pressure that you have been putting upon such rotation. If you fail to do this, you might
continue spinning. If you release the pressure too early, you might have only a partial
rotation, perhaps only 90 to 180 degrees. Once you have stabilized this „out of phase”
condition between your physical and nonphysical energies, it is possi­ble to „peel” out of
your physical body, moving outward and turning over as you do so. Reorientation with the
physical is quite simple: you rotate until your second body is in alignment with the physical
again. At that point you might perceive something akin to a little click, and you are then
reintegrated.
2. The second method is one where you conceive of your second body as a rigid pole. Using
your feet as a pivotal point, you move your second body slowly out of your physical body –
head first, then shoulders, then chest, then waist and abdomen, then your legs, until you are
standing or are rigidly at 90 degrees from your physical body. At this point, your only
connection is where your energy feet are still in proximity to your physical feet.
Then, desire itself is sufficient to enable a complete separation of your second body from
your physical body. ,1s with all exercises, you may return to your physical body using the
„Return to C-1” encoding. Or, if you are still connected with your physical body, simply
reverse your intent and tilt backward into your body.
3. The third technique involves „backing away from the physical.” That is, you slowly back
out and away from your physical body. You may even feel yourself moving down through
whatever you are lying on. Again, once this is achieved, turning away and moving to a more
distant position from your physical body can become a daily practice.
4. The fourth method involves moving out of the top of your head as if you are a thin spray of
gas or fog. Once you have removed your second body from your physical self, it often reforms quite naturally into a replica of your physical body. From that point, you are free to
behave as you desire.
5. The fifth method involves attaching an emotional value to the concept of floating and/or
soaring. You begin to contem-plate how pleasant it is to float upward, like a cloud, and your
second body responds to this emotional wish. Once you have achieved this, it is possible to
remove or control the emotion gradually so that other parts of your total self can direct your
experiences for the best possible outcome. All of these methods and techniques require
practice. Practice will assist you in becoming more aware of processes to go out-of-body.
(For descriptions and elaboration of these and other techniques, please refer to Robert
Monroe’s book, Journeys Out of the Body.) Often when one becomes aware of a separation
of the second body, a sense of excitement shifts one’s attention back to the physical body.
As a result, one tends to re-enter the physical body immediately. This natural reaction is
especially true for one’s first OBE. Therefore, to help you reduce the chance of this
possibility, use these techniques to develop patience and relaxed effort. Then, when you do
have an OBE, you’ll be able to experience the occasion fully.
Always bear in mind that you have an immediate means to return fully to your physical
body. You always have such control. In addition to the methods already mentioned,
whenever you want to reintegrate completely and immedi-ately with your physical body, all
you need do is think of some part of your physical body, such as the fingers on your right or
left hand, and start to move that part of your body. Stimulating your physical awareness
immediately initiates the return process. Continued stimulation (such as walking, doing
chores, or taking a cold shower) ensures a complete reinte-gration. The knowledge that you
have this „quick return” procedure will only increase your sense of freedom. Remember,

the effects of working with these various energy tools are cumulative. The learning and
application of one enhances and improves the use of another. The most important factor is
patience. To become a superb concert pianist requires many hours of practice. To become
proficient in the Gateway Experience requires much the same commitment.

WAVE IV: ADVENTURE
In this series of exercises you are provided a dynamic expression of consciousness beyond
Freedom – that of a personally controlled and directed Adventure. The title implies new
experiences, new ideas, new places, new friends, and new excitement. It is important that you
have completed all previous Gateway Experience Waves of Change exercises. Any use of these
exercises without such prior experience is not recommended.

Adventure #1: One-Year Patterning
This is an opportunity to design exactly how and what you desire to be one year into the future.
Before working with this exercise, plan carefully the pattern you wish to establish.
Please see Threshold #3: One-Month Patterning on page 40 to review all recommendations for
patterning. The pro-cess is identical,. You .will simply be working with a different time period.

Adventure #2: Five Messages
The Five Messages are arranged in order of importance. You will first ask for the fifth most
important message, then ask for the fourth, third, second, and finally the first most important
message for you at this time.
Rarely are the messages simply verbal. Often information appears in nonverbal form utilizing
the means of perception that you have been cultivating throughout the Gateway Experience. It
is important not to try to analyze the messages as you receive them, but to interpret them after
the exercise.

Adventure #3: Free Flow 12
This is an exercise that you will utilize again and again. It is a background against which you
can move into planned, systematic explorations in whatever direction you choose. It is better to
decide on your purpose before you begin so as not to fail into a sleep or dream state during the
exercise.
You will perform the preparatory process, move to Focus 10, then to Focus 12. After you arrive
at Focus 12, you will be introduced to the beacon guidepost. This is a noninvasive sound that
will gently remind you of where and who you are. As a result, it will enable you to roam free
and far without concern of drifting and forgetting your purpose.

Adventure #4: NVC
NVC is short for Non-Verbal Commmication. NVC appears to be a primary method of
conscious interaction in and among energy systems, or realities, where intelligence has a
specific level of awareness. NVC is not to be confused with body language, or physical
responses without words, either consciously or otherwise. Such communication does take place
continually, but it is not NVC. Please keep in mind that the process of NVC is different from
the process of C-1 communication. Both forms of communication require perception of some

kind of data, and then translation of that data to establish meaning. NVC is total expression. It
occurs in the mind, and in mind-to-mind communication. Dreams are principally NVC. You
have also encountered it many times in your Gateway Experience exercises – in vibrations,
light, living action, emotion. These and other unique forms of perception you develop will
comprise your NVC vocabulary. Allow yourself to establish new meanings for familiar
perceptions.
To fully enjoy your adventures, begin to learn and use NVC. This exercise is your primary
lesson in NVC. In previous exercises, you developed tools and methods of perception. Now you
will develop a form of total communi-cation. Work with it until you obtain results. Then
practice without the tape.

Adventure #5: NVC II
This is additional instruction in NVC. You will continue to recognize translation and
conceptualization techniques. The more advanced you become in NVC the broader your
perception will be in all states of being.

Adventure #6: Compoint
Compoint is our abbreviation for Communications Point – a state of consciousness that you can
establish and return to whenever you desire. Here, through NVC, you gather information, meet,
and associate with other energy or energy systems, or simply observe events and activities
occurring there. It can also serve as an agreed-upon meeting place with friends.

WAVE V: EXPLORING
When you listen to these exercises, your first impression may be that of simply listening to
musical sounds. But the music and Hemi-Sync sounds you hear are actually the Focus 10 and
Focus 12 processes in a new form. This Metamusic has been specifically composed to help you
further develop Non-Verbal Communication (NVC). The Metamusic guides you through these
exercises as you use the methods for reaching Focus 10 and Focus 12 that you have already
learned. There are no verbal instructions – the process is controlled solely by your mental
direction. With these exercises you will learn to achieve goals and create experiences without
instructions from the tape. You will direct yourself – where you want to go, and what you want
to experience. Changes in the frequencies of the Hemi--Sync signals automatically guide you in
creating different states of consciousness. With this help, you will sense your progression
through the now-familiar preparatory process (Resonant Tuning sounds remain on each tape),
and then on to states of expanded awareness and self-exploration.
You no longer need your verbal „training wheels.” Fur­thermore, by this time in your Gateway
Experience training, you have the expertise to regulate which Focus level you experience. In the
first two Exploring exercises, you will use Focus 10 and Focus 12 Hemi-Sync signals to help
you arrive at those levels; after that you will deliberately establish the Focus level that is most
comfortable for you for any particular exercise. For example, you may find that Focus 10
works best for you for Remote Viewing, using your Energy Bar Tool, or practicing out-of-body
techniques. In turn, Focus 12 might work best for you for patterning, problem solving, or
asking for guidance.

It is important that you have completed all previous Gateway Experience Waves of Change
exercises. Any use of these exercises without such prior experience is not recommended.

Exploring #1: Mission 10
This Focus 10 exercise is similar to „Free Flow 12” in that you should have a specific purpose
in mind before beginning. The difference is that there are no verbal instructions that may detract
from your experience. Here, the direction is totally yours. With no verbal reminders of C-1,
you may explore a more powerful and effective Focus 10 experience. Begin with the
preparatory process, and move on to Focus 10. Carry out your stated purpose using tools you’ve
learned in previous Gateway Experience exercises. (See Free Flow Methods of Exploration on
page 33.) When you sense a change in the sound patterns, return to C-1 using the method(s)
most comfortable for you.

Exploring #2: Mission 12
This is a Free Flow 12 exercise-NVC style. The possi-bilities are unlimited. On the surface,
„Mission 12” may sound the same as „Mission 10,” but the underlying audio signals will assist
you into Focus 12. Have your purpose firmly in mind before you begin the tape. After you
have completed the preparatory process, proceed to Focus 10 and then to Focus 12. Again, the
change in Hemi-Sync frequencies will automatically signal when it is time to move through
each phase. Accomplish whatever purpose you have selected (patterning, problem solving,
asking questions, or exploring a new idea or locale, to name a few), then come back to C-1
when it is time to return.

Exploring #3: Mission Day
This fifteen-minute exercise is designed to help you make the most of your day. Use it in the
morning before you begin your activities. After the preparatory process, go to Focus 10 or to
Focus 12 (whichever is best for you) and express that which you want to achieve during the
day. Express your goal not in words, but in active mental pictures and in feelings. Actually see
and feel the accomplishment of the day’s goal.
This is a patterning process, so you may want to review Threshold #3:
One-Month Patterning on page 40. This exercise can help set the tone for a successful day.

Exploring #4: Mission Night
Listen to this thirty-minute exercise as you go to sleep at night. Complete the preparatory
process and move on to Focus 10 or to Focus 12, whichever is most comfortable for you.
Pattern to direct your sleep experience. You may want to have an out-of-body experience, solve
a problem, receive a message, or remember your dreams more accurately. This exercise will not
bring you back to wakefulness, but lead you into restful sleep, from which you will awake
refreshed.

Exploring #5: Horizons
Here is an opportunity to look inward and explore. The sound patterns on this thirty-minute
exercise are intended to evoke memories, feelings, and events, and to allow you to experience
them in new ways. As usual, perform the preparatory process and choose your desired Focus

level. Then just relax and let it happen – there is no need for a specific purpose. Your
perceptions during this exercise may be different each time or they may build upon one another.
Record your experiences. Over time you will notice threads of continuity connecting your
experiences, or you may determine that each is unique.

Exploring #6: Pathways
Like „Horizons,” this exercise can help open doors to unexplored places within you. After
completing the prepar-atory process, just listen and allow the sounds to lead you along new
paths, or down old ones you may have long ago forgotten. Just for fun, shift between Focus
levels randomly, whenever you want. What changes do you notice? When the Hemi-Sync
signals change at the end of this thirty-minute exercise, return to C-1 by the method(s) you
choose.

Energy Walks
Your growing knowledge and understanding of NVC is preparing you for the infinite
possibilities of personal explor-ation and development. To help you generate your own ideas for
exploring, here are a few suggestions:
•

•
•
•
•
•
•

Travel in and through time by asking, “Who or what was I before this life?” and then, “Who
or what will I be during my next life experience?” Ask, “Where do I feel more at home?”
Explore connections between past, present, and future. “Does the future influence the past?”
“Does the past influence the future?” Then perceive yourself growing in a way you want to
grow, and notice if this awareness affects what you have thus far experienced.
Perceive and communicate with the unique consciousness of all life forms. How do you
perceive the energy of a cloud? Can you communicate with a flower? What NVC does a
dog use?
Perceive yourself in ocean surf and feel the energies of movement, vitality, and life forces
swirling a round you, and flowing deeply within you.
Trust in and build your NVC as you travel beyond the familiar time/space/physical matter
reality. What do nonphysical systems of energy feel like? What is the landscape? Are there
inhabitants?
Imagine yourself reaching out and touching a tree. Feel it rooted in both the earth and sky,
and then feel the flowing of energies from above and below gathering within you.
Allow a breeze to move gently around you. Sense the energy that gives you freedom –
freedom to move, to be light, to float, to fly.
Imagine yourself going deep within the earth. Travel to its core.
What do you experience? Imagine yourself going deep within yourself.
Again, what do you experience?

WAVE VI: PROSPECTING
Everyone has their own mine in which to dig for elusive treasures; a „mine of the mind.” The
Prospecting tapes provide the tools to dig for that diamond of thought, golden recognition,
emerald feeling, or artifact of knowledge which is important to your personal growth. As in the
old gold rush days, you can experience „the find” and capitalize on your unique and inborn
treasures. The hunt can he almost as much fun as the discovery. Prospecting will provide you

with further experiences in Non-Verbal Communication (NVC). The Metamusic is designed to
take you one step further with NVC. But don’t take our word for it – stake your own claims and
find the rich veins waiting for you as you go prospecting. As with Exploring, there are no
verbal instructions. Resonant Tuning sounds are still included to help you complete the
preparatory process. Then the Hemi-Sync frequencies will gently guide you in creating
different states of consciousness.
It is important that you have completed all previous Gateway Experience Waves of Change
exercises. Any use of these exercises 4vithout such prior experience is not recommended.

Prospecting #1: Metamorphosite
The prospecting is good at this site. You’re hunting the gems of metamorphosis, of change.
This tape is designed to create at the mental level the changes that you desire. There-fore,
mentally set your goals before you begin the tape. After completing the preparatory process, go
to Focus 10 or Focus 12 (whichever seems right for you). Use patterning to bring about the
changes you have set for yourself. The Hemi-Sync sounds will assist you in returning.

Prospecting #2: Bio-Body
With this exercise, you will explore the treasure trove that is your physical body. Perform the
preparatory process, and go to the Focus level that is most comfortable to you. Then, begin a
thorough examination of your physical body and its rhythms using the appropriate tools (such
as your Living Body Map and Energy Bar Tool). The more you use this exercise the more
familiar you’ll become with your physical being. As a result, you’ll be better able to maintain or
restore optimum physical balance and well-being.

Prospecting #3: Null Point
This exercise can lead you to a rich and lasting gold vein in the mine of your mind. This vein
was unearthed in our laboratory while working with test subjects. Our laboratory, instruments
suggest that the Null Point is where the body’s electric polarity shifts into a neutral phase. Our
subjects have found that the Null Point provides a useful „window” for heading in any direction
of mind activity. At the Null Point, you may purposefully decide exactly what to explore. To
reach this state of pure potential, after completing the preparatory process, go to Focus 10, then
to Focus 12. Then the Hemi-Sync signals can guide you beyond Focus 12 to the Null Point.

Prospecting #4: Plus Polarity
Strike it rich! The purpose of this exercise is to lead you through the Null Point to the opposite
polarity from where’ you started. Various studies indicate there is reason to believe that the
body’s polarity routinely shifts from positive to negative and back again in cycles. Our research
suggests that a deliberate shift in polarity indicates that one is experiencing a change in
consciousness. We have observed that such a shift indicates a substantial change from C-1
awareness to nonphysical awareness.
Go from the preparatory process to Focus 10, then to Focus 12. Allow the frequencies to assist
your shift in polarity. Pay attention to subtle changes in your awareness. Notice if you
recognize more aspects of nonphysical energy. As with all the tapes in this home-study course,
the Hemi-Sync signals will bring you back to your starting point.

Prospecting #5: Near Reaches
Stake your personal claim in the physical universe. Complete the preparatory process and go on
to Focus 12. Passing through the Null Point in this exercise can lead, you to discover untold
treasures in and of time and space.

Prospecting #6: Far Reaches
What’s farther than the vast reaches of the physical universe? The infinite nonphysical energy
systems that go beyond time and space. From the preparatory process, Focus 10, and Focus 12,
pass through the Null Point and begin your hunt. Dig deep. Soar high. You’re now beyond
words. All that you have learned through your Gateway Experience has prepared you for your
journeys.

ENCODING INSTRUCTIONS
To encode is to establish a specific signal, or trigger, that brings about a specific occurrence.
During the tape exercises, you will mentally create a trigger (a thought pattern) that symbolizes
the desired outcome. Most of these encodings incorporate a specific physical action, such as a
breath or hand movement, that reinforces the mental trigger. This en-coding signal is inserted
into, and works with, various levels of your consciousness. As a result, your total self responds
to the signal, bringing about the desired effect. The more you use these encodings in C-1, the
more powerful and effective they become. Awake and Alert (Discovery #2)
To become physically wide awake and alert, touch the fingers of your right hand to the back of
your neck and repeat the number one in your mind. Energy Food (Threshold #4, Freedom #5)
To receive, convert, and store fresh new energy, close your physical eyes, extend your physical
hands outward palms up, then inhale deeply and hold your breath for a moment. Think of pure,
white energy flowing from above into your palms, through your arms into your total self.
Exhale and open your eyes.
Focus 10 (Discovery #3)
To move to Focus 10 (mind alert and body deeply asleep), inhale sparkling energy, say in your
mind or think the number ten, exhale, and you will be in Focus 10.
Focus 10 (Threshold #5)
To move to Focus 10, close your eyes and count slowly from one to ten. You will then be in
Focus 10.
Focus 12 (Threshold #1)
To be in Focus 12 (expanded awareness) from Focus 10, count from ten to twelve, and you will
be in Focus 12.
Healing (Threshold #4)
To bring any part of your physical body to a normal, healthy, balanced, operating condition,
close your eyes and inhale. Hold your breath and think of the cool energy of purple. Send that
energy to that part of your physical body requiring help and say in your mind, „Heal, balance.”
Memory (Discovery #2, Threshold #5, Freedom #2) To remember any part of your life

experience, close your eyes and softly touch the fingers of your right hand to the center of your
forehead. Patterning (Threshold #4)
To set a pattern, go to Focus 12 (see „Focus 12” encod­ing) and think of the pattern you desire.
Build it carefully in your mind. Then release it strongly and surely into all areas of your
expanded awareness. Physical Strength and Agility (Threshold #4) To perform a physical act
with far greater strength, speed, and agility, close your physical eyes, inhale deeply, hold your
breath, and think of the physical act to be performed, and then the strong color energy of red.
Problem Solving (Threshold #2)
To receive the best answer or solution to a problem, inhale deeply, pulling fresh energy into
your physical head. Hold your breath, think of the number twelve, then the ques-tion or
problem. Exhale and receive the answer or solution.
Relax (Threshold #6)
To relax and remove all harmful tension and emotion from your mind and body, think of the
number ten, inhale deeply and exhale as if you were blowing out a candle.
Resonant Energy Balloon: REBAL (Discovery #3) To create your REBAL, inhale, and as you
hold your breath, think of a bright moving circle with the number ten inside it. Exhale, letting
the circle move down, around, and over you. You will automatically reabsorb your REBAL
upon completion of any exercise, or by inhaling deeply and thinking of the circle moving back
into your body. Return to C-1 (Discovery #3)
To return to full, waking C-1 consciousness, think the number one, and move the fingers of
your right hand. You will immediately be wide awake and refreshed.
Return to C-1 (Threshold #5)
To return to full, waking C-1 consciousness, close your physical eyes and breathe deeply as you
count slowly from ten to one, and you will be wide awake and refreshed.
Sleep (Discovery #5)
To go into normal, natural, restful sleep, count slowly in your mind from one to twenty: When
you reach the number twenty, you will be in normal, natural, restful sleep.
Stress Reduction (Threshold #4)
To reduce any emotional pressure throughout your total system, close your eyes and inhale
deeply. Hold your breath and think of the calming, cleansing energy of green. Exhale, pushing
all excess and harmful emotional charges down through your body and out through the soles of
your feet.

QUESTIONS & ANSWERS
Here are questions frequently asked by Gateway Experience participants. In addition to the
formulation of the Guidance Manual, the answers are the result of years of experience, inquiry,
and research. „Questions & Answers” will supplement and reinforce your Manual instructions.
During an exercise ...
Q: What should I do when various images or dream-like thoughts interfere with what I’m trying
to do on a tape?

A: Do not suppress or force the images away; rather, acknowledge them without getting
involved with them, otherwise you may fall into a sleep state. Look at them, then let them go.
You can always go back to them later.
Q: I’m not able or willing to vocalize with the Resonant Tuning. I go into a very deep relaxed
state and my mouth doesn’t seem to want to work. I either sing along in my head, click-out, or
start some kind of thought dream: What should I do?
A: It is important to discipline yourself to participate in Resonant Tuning because this is a
method which will help you perceive nonphysical energy, so that you can later control and use
it. Resonant Tuning promotes an accelerated gathering of your vibrational energy while
reducing internal dialogue. Discomfort about vocalizing with the tapes will eventually wane.
Q: When using the tapes, I am aware of a buzzing or pressure in my forehead and also an
acceleration of my heartbeat. Is this normal? A: A light buzzing or pressure happens frequently
to some people. It means that you are responding to the Hemi-Sync process. However, if you
are experiencing a great degree of discomfort, you may have the volume too loud. For best
results, the volume should be just loud enough for you to hear the verbal instructions.
Remember, you are expanding your state of awareness; consequently, you are more conscious
of your heartbeat, breathing, etc. This is a phenomenon common to the shift in energy levels
such as the shift from Consciousness 1 to Focus 10. Q: I don’t seem to feel the high energy
states and have trouble visualizing what they should feel like.
A: Everyone perceives his/her experiences in a different way, so these high energy states will
not necessarily be visual. Some people report seeing light, color, and form, but others quite
frequently perceive sensations. You may experience vibration(s), or what seems to be an
electric tingling or a shaking of your body, bed, or room. Some people hear a rushing sound,
buzzing, voices, verbal messages, or even music. Others may just „know” when they have
achieved these states. Just relax and observe your own perceptions without judging how you
should feel. Q: I continually fall asleep during the taped exercises. What can I do about this?
A; First, make sure you are rested before doing the exercise. Second, stretch lightly and splash
your face and neck with cold water. Third, put the idea of sleep into your Energy Conversion
Box. Fourth, if you are still falling asleep, try, sitting up during the exercise. And fifth, practice,
practice, practice! It is through patience and continued practice that you learn to maintain the
balance between deep relaxation and sleep.
Q: I’m having difficulty forming and controlling my Energy Bar Tool (EBT). Sometimes it
switches to a triangle or seems to be an extension of my, own arm. Is this normal?
A: The Energy Bar Tool can take any shape which comes to your mind. It doesn’t have to be
the same each time you use it and it can switch forms while you are using it. The purpose of the
EBT is to focus and direct nonphysical energy. There are many uses for the EBT: healing
(Threshold #G: Living Body Map on page 45), perceiving distant events and people (Freedom
#2: Remote Viewing on page 53), or entering other energy systems (Threshold #5: Energy Bar
Tool on page 44), to name a few. Your imagination is the only limit.
Q: Sometimes during a tape I feel. so much energy in my body that it actually gets
uncomfortable and I want to come out of the tape. What should I do about this?
A: Realize that the energy you are feeling is second-state energy, the nonphysical energy which
you first need to perceive before you can control and use it. Try to move the energy through

your whole body – see if you can speed it up or slow it down; in other words, start controlling
it. The fact that you are perceiving this energy is indicative that you are reaching an expanded
state of awareness, of consciousness – -which is exactly what you are striving for.
Q: I usually sleep on my side or stomach and feel insecure sprawled out on my back. Also, I
cannot remain on my back very long without getting restless. What should I do?
A: You might try sitting upright in a comfortable chair or in your bed while listening to the
tapes. Some people report that they prefer sitting up because they’re less likely to drop off to
sleep. Also, if you have a comfortable set of „ear-bud” headphones, you might be able to
arrange some pillows so that you can „ride the Waves” while lying on your side or stomach.
Ear-buds are readily available at stores carrying stereo products.
Q: Even while in Focus 10, I am aware of my breathing. This makes it impossible for me to
detach myself, or otherwise perceive the high energy states. Any suggestions?
A: This is a very normal reaction. Actually, it can enhance your experience if used in a positive
way. It’s your breathing that helps charge you with energy (hence, the Resonant Tuning
exercises) and prepares you for moving to high energy states. Be aware of what is happening to
you and just let it be – don’t fight it. You can be aware of your breathing and of the taped
exercise. You can always put the worries about your breathing in your Energy Conversion Box
if it really bothers you. Once you convince yourself that breathing is a normal process and not a
problem, the awareness of breathing should disappear by itself. Some even find their breathing
or their heartbeat a comforting link to physical reality and then can move more confidently into
other states of consciousness. Q: During „Focus 12 Free Flow” I had a peak experience. How
can I have this experience again?
A: Focus 12, the state of expanded awareness, offers many valuable insights. We recommend
that you do not seek to repeat or regain peak experiences and make them „ordinary.” These
experiences are precious, and are to be treasured rather than captured. They are unique events.
Rediscover their uniqueness in many forms. Q: Thus far, I have not been able to visualize my
REBAL energy coming from my head and bending around to my feet. I’m stuck. A:
Remember that visualization is only one way of per-ceiving. Not everyone is adept at mental
images. Perhaps you can feel or know that you are forming your Resonant Energy Balloon
(REBAL). Imagine that you are surrounded by and filled with tingling, sparkling, brilliant
bursts of energy. If you have practiced the technique often, you are possibly forming the
REBAL without even being aware of it. „Popping” your REBAL frequently without using the
tapes will strengthen it. The REBAL is an invaluable tool; use it often. (Please refer to
Discovery #3: Advanced Focus 10 on page 25, for complete instructions.) Q: I would like a
more extensive explanation of Non-Verbal Communication (NVC). I believe I’m beginning to
understand it, but at first I felt quite frustrated.
A: Your frustration is understandable. Most of us are left-brained (linear, verbal, etc.) in our
orientation. NVC addresses right-brain functions (intuition, gut feelings, images) and is a way
of communicating or understanding beyond verbalization. NVC implies a holistic
communication based more on feelings and impressions. For example, a beautiful sunset could
be described endlessly in words (the colors; the interplay of light, shadows, clouds, and
landscape) without ever capturing the feeling it brings. With NVC, you can instantly
comprehend all the physical, plus nonphysical information. Words never capture an NVC
„thought-ball” without losing much of its essence in the translation. Q: I have been using the

tapes and do get some interesting things, but I would be more pleased if I knew that I was
getting what was intended. A: As we review the mail that comes to the Institute and listen to
your phone calls, one of the clearest messages that comes across to all of us is that no two
individuals’ experiences are alike. They range from the cosmic to the mundane, and yet are
almost invariably of real meaning and significance to the person having the experience. If the
instructions described what you should experience, you might discount an experience because it
was not mentioned. Yet that experience might be a most meaningful event for you.
Q: While listening to your tapes, I experienced a flood of light. Is this light God?
A: The light (often accompanied by feelings of euphoria, a oneness with the universe, a sense of
overwhelming love) is an experience that has been widely reported by explorers of higher
consciousness and people who have had near-death experiences. A Buddhist might indicate he
has seen Buddha; a Moslem, Allah or Mohammed; a Christian might interpret this as the light
of Christ. The Institute, understandably, does not endorse any particular religious
interpretations. Whatever your religious background or training, seeing such a light can be a
meaningful experience that may indicate that you are developing your potential on nonphysical
levels. On using the tapes...
Q: How many times should I use each tape before going on to the next one? A: That can vary
greatly with the individual. You should be familiar and comfortable with a tape before
advancing to the next one. However, don’t feel you must master it completely. There may be
challenges for an individual with a specific technique that can diminish or disappear with
practice or exposure to a more advanced tape. Of course, don’t hesitate to review any of the
tapes for reinforcement. Q: Can my children use the tapes?
A: Many parents have had good results using Gateway Experience tapes with their children. We
encourage parents to work with their children and to monitor their progress. Again, we leave it
to the discretion of the parents whether or not to use the tapes with family members. Q: I
understand that after a while we really do not need the tapes to achieve different states of
consciousness. How do I remember the Hemi-Sync signals?
A: It is true that with practice, you do not need the taped exercises to reach expanded states of
consciousness. After you become proficient with an exercise, all you need to do is recall the
sensations you experienced during what you con-sider to be your best, most effective response
in the desired state. Simply take a deep breath and remember the state to trigger the change in
consciousness. The more you perform this technique, the easier and more effective it will
become. (Please refer to the One-Breath Technique on page 47.)
Q: Have any people reported obtaining worthwhile results with the use of marijuana or other
drugs in conjunction with the tapes? A: We have had some reports from people who have used
mind-altering drugs with the tapes. The results they have reported have been mixed, neither
indicating that drugs added to nor aided their experiences. In any event, we strongly
recommend not using drugs with the tapes. The tapes are training you to take control over your
states of conscious-ness Drugs interfere with that control. In other words, the two are not
compatible. Q: The Gateway Experience tapes have changed my life, but my spouse doesn’t
understand. Do you have any sugges-tions on how to convince someone who doesn’t want to
experience the tapes that they are worth trying, or at least that they are not harmful? A:
Whether we are talking about the tapes and programs of The Monroe Institute or about any
other self-awareness/ consciousness-expansion system or program, the rule seems to be that you

cannot „force feed” the information. It is the individual’s own interest and desire that creates
the enthu-siasm for exploration that leads to success. With anyone (spouse, friends, children),
what you demonstrate by your actions is much more forceful than any words you can say. You
can show the benefits through your behavior if your spouse doesn’t want to discuss your
experiences in depth. When you do talk about what you are doing, emphasize the
nonthreatening aspects, see if you can find ways to relate your experiences to experiences your
spouse has had, or those you have shared in the past. Perhaps you can find an individual tape
such as Concentra-tion, Catnapper, or Love Tennis that you can both use and then be able to
talk about the benefits of Hemi-Sync in everyday life situations.
Q: I have a friend who has been meditating, practicing yoga, and working with other disciplines
for years. Would the Monroe Institute tapes and programs have anything to offer him, or is he
too advanced? A: We have had people with a wide variety of backgrounds enroll in both the
Gateway Experience and the week-long Gateway Voyage. Long-term meditators may find that
the Hemi-Sync signals produce states quite similar to or even identical with states that they
have been experiencing. The differences, however, are found in (1) the ease of attaining that
state (you put on the headphones and there you are); (2) the ease of maintaining the state (the
Hemi-Sync signal is constant and does not waver with outside interruptions, so noises distract
less and the attention is immediately refocused by the signal); and finally (3) the Hemi-Sync
tapes provide tools and guidelines for exploration. Out-of-Body Experience ...
Q: I’m currently working with the Discovery album. What if I can’t get out of my body on tape
#5 („Exploration, Sleep”)? Should I continue with tape #5 until I do, or after a reasonable time
move on to the next tape? A: Not everyone will have a conscious out-of-body experience
(OBE). It takes a lot of practice for most, and , many of us have hidden fears that hold us back.
Also, if you try too hard for an OBE, the intense effort can become the very distraction that
holds you back. Be nonchalant about OBEs. They are just a small part of our program of
personal exploration and learning to expand consciousness. As long as you’re thoroughly
familiar with tape #5, by all means go on to the next tape. Q: Do you have any suggestions as
to how to better control an out-of-body experience? Once I get out, I don’t know how to steer
my thoughts. A: You can practice control of an OBE by setting a goal before you begin. Then
you won’t need to decide what to do once you are out. You may want to „float,” see a particular
person, go to a destination, or contact a nonphysical entity. If an OBE happens spontaneously,
remember that thoughts are action in the second-state (whatever you think, you do). At first it
may be easier to think of a person and reach their energy rather than to attempt arriving at a
geographic desti-nation. Any time you wish to return, think of returning to your body and/or
move a finger or toe and you will be back.
Q: If I have an out-of-body experience, can I cause my wife to have one? A: We have had
reports that individuals have helped another person to get out-of-body. The method to
accomplish this is unclear. It might be worthwhile to remember that it is Rober Monroe’s
experience that most people probably have at least one out-of-body experience each night
during their sleep, but they do not remember the experience in waking conscious-ness. You and
your wife might both try patterning for synchronicity in your OBEs.
Q: Does astral projection/second body equal death/hereafter? What does a second body look
like? Can one’s second body see another’s second body? A: Astral projection and death appear
to have similar qualities. You might want to read Raymond Moody’s book, Life After Life,
where many near-death experiences are related. The second body can take on different forms. It

can look like a ball of energy, misty form, or appear to have a human form. People perceive it
differently. It will usually appear to you in a form that you are comfortable with. Your second
body can perceive another’s second body.
On the technical side...
Q: There’s noise on my tapes. They all have a hissing sound which I can only partially filter out
with the Dolby switch an my stereo. Are my tapes defective?
A: No. The hissing or „tape noise” sound is intentional. It’s known as „pink sound” and
provides a bed for the Hemi--Sync signals. Pink sound contains all the tones the human ear can
perceive. The higher and lower portions of the sound have been compensated for in volume so
you hear the entire sound equally-it helps the mind create or select sound to complete the HemiSync process. DO NOT use Dolby or other noise-reduction systems as they interfere with the
Institute’s sophisticated Hemi-Sync mastering process.
Q: There’s no indication of right or left ear on any of the later tapes.
It is still important to have the headphones on correctly? A: No. On the earlier tapes, we make
a distinction because of the design of those tapes. However, the techniques and sound
combinations on the latter tapes are more sophis-ticated, and do not require any right-ear/leftear adjustment.
Q: Is the „clicking” sound on some of my tapes normal? A: No. If you are hearing
disconcerting clicking or popping sounds on a tape (versus the „tape hiss” or „tooth brushing”
of the pink sound), it may be defective. First, be sure the clicking is on the tape and not coming
from your tape player. If you have a defective tape, return it to us for replacement. As soon as
we receive it, we will send you a replacement at no charge.
Q: I find the recording level on the tapes is high and the VU needle on our cassette deck often
kicks into the red area. Is this okay? A: Most recorded material will peak in the red area. This
will occur more frequently with some cassette deck players than with others. As long as there is
no distortion of the sound, it presents no problem. However, we do suggest that the Hemi--Sync
exercises be listened to at a low level. It is better to have the volume too low than too high. Q:
What is the difference between hypnosis and Hemi-Sync? A: The term „hypnosis” is open to
many interpretations. People often regard hypnosis as a process of being led into a state of high
suggestibility and relinquishing control to the hypnotist. On the other hand, Hemi-Sync is
designed to allow the individual to consciously control and manipulate his/her own states of
awareness. With self-, or auto-, hypnosis the individual relaxes him/ herself, moves to a desired
state of awareness, and con-sciously directs the exercise. Although similar in this regard, HemiSync, with its special frequencies, assists the listener in achieving the desired state of
consciousness much more quickly. (For more information on Hemi-Sync, please refer to Brain
Power on page 8.) Q: Are Hemi-Sync tapes subliminal?
A: No. „Subliminal” implies that a specific verbal message (in the case of audio cassette tapes)
is recorded below audible level and often at high speed. The intention is to imbed a particular
thought in the mind of the listener. By comparison, Hemi-Sync signals, although recorded at a
subaudible level, are not verbal messages and are not recorded at high speed. The intention of
the Hemi-Sync signals is to assist the listener into a state of awareness conducive to the
development of a self-directed experience. Several Hemi-Sync tapes contain sleep periods
during which verbal guidance is recorded at a very low level so as not to awaken the listener.

The script during these periods is a repetition of the information heard previously on the tape.
Institute programs ...
Q: What are the differences in the Gateway Experience, the Gateway Voyage, and Guidelines?
A: The Gateway Experience is the home-study course based on the week-long Gateway
Voyage. It is also used by those who have taken the Voyage and would like a refresher and/or
reinforcement of the techniques learned – as well as for continued exploration. Many of the
Gateway Experience and Gateway Voyage tapes are the same. Both programs assist you in a
wide exploration of consciousness. However, Gateway Experience tapes implement Focus 10
and 12, while participants in the Gateway Voyage also experience Focus 15 (No Time, No
Space) and Focus 21 (Other Energy Systems) as well. Guidelines, a six-day Gateway graduate
program is open only to those who have completed a Gateway Voyage. Guidelines utilizes all
Focus levels, with a concentration of Focus 15 and Focus 21. At Guidelines, the emphasis is on
learning more about guidance – in whatever manner guidance manifests to you personally.
Q: When will Focus 15 tapes be made available? A: (For those of you who have not
experienced the week-long Gateway Voyage, Focus 15 and Focus 21 tapes, which open areas of
„no time” and beyond, are a highlight of the program.) At this time there are not even rumors
that Focus 15 tapes might be made available outside the Institute. Those of you who have
experienced them are undoubtedly aware of their potency, and remember the carefully
controlled environ-ment in which you listened to them here at the Institute or other training
facility. We remind you also that once having used those tapes, the information and signals are
in your mind; you can return to that level at any time you like, simply by remembering what
Focus 15 or Focus 21 felt like. Equally important is to continue practicing the techniques you
have learned. Just as people’s experiences with Focus 12 vary greatly, so does the experience of
Focus 15. The intent and desire to go beyond Focus 12, to continue to expand and experience is
what is needed more than a specific tape. Q: What is the Personal Resource Exploration
Program? A: The Personal Resource Exploration Program (PREP) provides individual sessions
for self-exploration utilizing the Institute’s research laboratory isolation booth. These sessions,
like the Explorer Program sessions, are facilitated by trained monitors and technicians. The
combination of Hemi-Sync, the sensory-deprivation booth, biomonitoring equipment, and
trained monitors guiding the exploratory process, all converge to produce a personal growth
tool, par excellence. For more information, call or write the Institute. Q: I’m going to be in
Virginia on my vacation and would like to stop by and see the Institute and find out what’s
happening there. Where is Faber, Virginia?
A: The Institute is located in Nelson County, Virginia, about thirty miles south of
Charlottesville. While we are always happy to meet our many friends of the Gateway
Experience, there is not a lot for you to see here because of the nature of our work. Our
administrative building is simply a very busy office as we process your orders, correspondence,
and course registrations. Just up the road, the Residential Center, Labora-tory, and Conference
Center are restricted areas while programs are in progress. (As I am sure you can understand by
this time, silence is important.) One of the reasons for locating the Institute in this area is the
fact that it is off the beaten track and therefore conducive to quiet and working with sensitive
equipment.
After considering the above, if you would like to drop by for a visit, please phone ahead so we
can schedule you an appointment with a staff member. Even better, instead of a visit to a rather

typical office this year, why not plan to spend your next vacation here at a Gateway Voyage,
Guidelines, or Human-Plus program? That’s the way to find out what’s happening here!

CONGRATULATIONS
You have completed the Gateway Experience, although „completed” is not really the
appropriate word. As you know by now, this is a program one never totally finishes, since
personal growth is an on-going adventure. You may continue to benefit from this in-home
training system, developing and evolving your skills whenever you desire. As each exercise and
Wave builds one upon the other, so can the entire Gateway Experience build upon itself. The
results are cumulative. Your continued willingness to explore can repeatedly catapult you into
new and exciting realms of awareness.
WRACAJ

