

The Gateway Experience(r)
Wave V-Exploring
A Journey to Focus1 15


A Gateway to Self-Exploration Voiced by Laurie Monroe



Exploring is dedicated to Robert A. Monroe, to all who are committed to personal growth, and to the evolution of humanity
seven generations from you.






(c) 2004, Monroe Products5M, All Rights Reserved

Comments from Bob Monroe regarding the Gateway Experience

What can you expect from the Gateway Experience? As much or as little as you put into it. The exercises provide you with a set of tools-how you use them and what you do with them is your responsibility. Some disş cover themselves for the first time, and thus
live more completely, more constructively. Others reach levels of awareness so profound that only one such experience is enough for a lifetime. Still others become seekers after truth and add onş going adventure to their daily activity.

There is only one basis-that you seriously consider the Gateway Affirmation at the least a possibility: that you are more than your physical body, that you can and do exist in energy systems that are notlimited to time-space, that youcan and do communicate with intelligence beyond your physical consciousness-call it what you will.




2

The Gateway Affirmation
I am more than my physical body. Because I am more than physş ical matter, I deeply desire to Expand, to Experience; to Know, to Understand; to Control, to Use such greater energies and energy systems as may be beneficial and constructive to me and to those near and close to me. Also, I deeply desire the help and cooperation, the assistance, the understanding of those individuals whose wisş dom, development, and experience are equal or greater than my own.

What Is Hemi-Sync(r)?
Hemi-Sync(r) is a patented, scientifically and clinically proven audio-guidance technology developed by The Monroe Institute and refined with over 40 years of research. Researchers learned that specific sound patterns could lead the brain to various states of conş sciousness ranging from deep relaxation or sleep to expanded awareness and other "extraordinary" states.

The audio-guidance process works by sending different sounds (tones) to each ear with stereo headphones. The two hemispheres of the brain then act in unison to "hear" a third signal-the differş ence between the two tones. This is not an actual sound, but an electrical signal that canonly be perceived within the brain by both brain hemispheres working together. The result is a focused, whole-
3

brain state known as hemispheric synchronization, or "Hemiş Sync(r)." Different Hemi-Sync(r) signals are used to facilitate deep relaxation, focused attention, or other desired states.

Music, verbal guidance, or subtle sound effects are combined with Hemi-Sync(r) signals to strengthen their effectiveness. These recordş ings contain no subliminal messages. You are always in control.

Cautions and Warnings: Please Read
The Gateway Experience is a system of training in self-exploş ration and personal development. It is not a form of psychotheraş py, philosophy, religion, or medical diagnosis I treatment. It is a means to acquire knowledge-the application and results thereof are solely the responsibility of the trainee.

While many of our products contribute to wellness, they are not intended to replace medical diagnosis and treatment. DO NOT listen to Hemi-Sync(r) while driving or operating heavy equipş ment, or with other devices that mayinfluence brain-wave activş ity. If you have a tendency towards seizures, auditory disorders, or adverse mental condition(s), DO NOT listen to Hemi-Sync(r) without first consulting your physician. In the unlikely event that you experience any unusual physical or mental discomfort,

4

immediately discontinue use. DO NOT reproduce Hemi-Sync(r) products or use with Dolby(r) or other noise-reduction systems. Doing so will diminish the effectiveness of the Hemi-Sync(r) sigş nals.
ALL WARRANTIES WHETHEll EXPllESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, ARE DISCLAIMED.

The Gateway Experience
Recommendations for Use
The Gateway Experience is an in-home training program for developing, exploring, and applying expanded states of awareness. Exercises in this series use specially blended Hemi-Sync(r) freş quencies combined with verbal guidance and subtle sound effects to guide you into focused, whole-brain states of consciousness.

You will be gently led from your physical waking state into deep relaxation then to those thresholds of consciousness where you may experience profound states of expanded awareness. While in such states, one has a broader range of perceptions available with which to solve problems, develop creativity or obtain guidance. You may use this expansion and integration of personal awareş ness to know and better understand your total self so you might
5

enjoy a more fulfilling life.

Each album (Wave) in the Gateway Experience is progressive in nature, building directly on the tools and techniques from the preş vious album. Therefore, the albums must be used sequentially. Following are recommendations for listening to these exercises:
Ľ Locate a distraction-free environment where you can darken the room and remain undisturbed for the 30- to 45-minute exercises.
Ľ Listen using stereo headphones on a personal or home stereo system.
Ľ Adjust the volume to a level where you can barely hear the words. Otherwise, the verbal guidance may startle you following a period of silence.
Ľ Allow at least one hour after eating and avoid alcohol, drugs, or excessive caffeine, which may limit the effectiveness of the Hemiş Sync(r) exercises.
Ľ Get comfortable. Use the bathroom before each exercise even if it seems unnecessary. Loosen any tight clothing and remove shoes, glasses, or contacts. Listen while lying down or seated with your head supported, whichever is more comfortable for you.
Ľ If you itch during an exercise, scratch. You will be able to move gently back into your pattern of relaxation.

6
Ľ 
There can be a metabolic drop as you enter an exercise, producş ing a perception of heat, motion, or pressure. Have a loose blanket handy, ready to pull up or throw off as needed.
Ľ Keep a journal to document the details of your experiences, such as date/time, body position, medication or unusual diet, mood/attiş tude, energy level, moon phase, or any other unusual circumstance.

Foreword to Waves V and VI
The Gateway Experience In-Home Training Series evolved directş ly from The Monroe Institute(r)'s world-renowned Gateway Voyage(r). Thousands of people have journeyed from around the world to attend the highly acclaimed Voyage or another of the Institute's six-day resş idential programs. Given the popularity of these life-enhancing proş grams, it is easy to understand why the Gateway Experience is widely considered the preeminent in-home course for developing, exploring, and applying expanded states of awareness. Indeed, like the Voyage, the Gateway Experience has attracted loyal particiş pants from all walks of life and from every corner of the globe.

Wave V (Exploring) and Wave VI (Odyssey) are milestones with regard to the Gateway Experience as prior to their release Gateway Experience enthusiasts were not permitted an opportuş nity to work with Focus(tm) 15 (no time) and Focus 21 (the bridge to other energy systems). The extraordinary states of awareness made
7

possible in these Focus levels had previously been reserved for the Institute's residential programs.

While actual experiences vary from person to person, most program participants have considered their Focus 15 and Focus 21 exercises to be profoundly meaningful, if not life-changing. Not surprisingly, requests for these Focus levels to be included in a continuation of the Gateway Experience in-home program have outnumbered all other requests we have received, without exception.

So why, after decades ofreceiving such requests, was a decision finalş ly made to release Focus 15 and Focus 21 exercises for use outside the Institute's residential programs? In a word, timing. Much has changed in the evolution of human consciousness since the Institute's program beginnings.

On an individual level, it may be observed that the universe works with impeccable timing in matters related to personal growth and spiritual development. Untold numbers of individuals, for example, have been guided to attend Institute programs at what may be conş sidered the most appropriate time. Similarly, we were guided to release Focus 15 and Focus 21 exercises for the first time outside Institute programs.


8

Robert Monroe endeavored to offer "something of value" to our conş temporary culture so as to constructively change man's direction and destiny. Waves V and Vl of the Gateway Experience are offered in the spirit of this vision. These Waves are dedicated to Robert A. Monroe, to all who are committed to personal growth, and to the evoş lution of humanity seven generations from you.

We welcome your participation.

Wave V -  Exploring
In Wave V, you will be reacquainted with Focus 12, the state of expanded awareness. You will then have the opportunity to enhance your intuitive abilities with two additional Focus 12 exerş cises. These exercises will help you connect to the feeling or feelş ings associated with an intuitive knowing. They can assist you in identifying and overcoming limiting beliefs or obstacles which may prevent you from knowing and trusting your intuitive self.

Focus 12 is an ideal springboard for exploring higher states of conş sciousness. From this now familiar state, you will be introduced to Focus 15, the "no time" state-the state of simply being. Hemiş Sync(r) signals will assist you as you expand your consciousness far beyond the limitations of your five physical senses and connect with the source of your intuition. Following your introduction, you
9

will have the opportunity to experience Focus 15 as a powerful state of creation and manifestation before moving on to the culmiş nation of Wave V, a free flow Focus 15 exercise. This free flow experience will provide you with an ideal inner landscape for furş ther exploration of this extraordinary state.

We suggest you practice the verbal cues you learn in Wave V so you can repeat your experiences without listening to the exercisş es. The more you do this, the easier it will become.

We appreciate your dedication to personal growth and thank you for your continued support of the Gateway Experience. As always, we urge you to keep a journal of your explorations. We invite you to share your Wave V experiences and would be delightş ed to hear from you.

Contact information:
The Gateway Experience Coordinator c/o Monroe Products
P.O. Box 505	Lovingston, VA 22949
434-263-8692	800-541-2488
FAX: 434-263-8699
Interstate@Hemi-Sync.com www.Berni-Sync.com

10

Wave V Exercises
Exploring I-Advanced Focus 12
Focus 12, the state of expanded awareness, can serve as an ideal springboard for expanded explorations. In this exercise you will return to Focus 12 to strengthen and reinforce your familiarity with this valuable state. You are free to explore. You may use this opportunity to perceive with your nonphysical senses, to establish new patterns for your life or to reopen channels of communicaş tions with your nonphysical friends. Practice your nonverbal comş munication skills by giving and receiving information.

Exploring 2-Discovering Intuition
In Exercise 2 you will be guided to use the Focus 12 state of expanded awareness as a natural foundation for enhancing your intuitive abilities. You will learn to connect to the feeling or feelş ings associated with an intuitive knowing. This feeling is your own unique and personal marker of your intuition in action. You will also learn a verbal cue that you might use whenever you desire to know something with great clarity. The more you exercise your intuitive abilities, the more you will come to rely upon and trust this innate part of who you truly are.



11

Exploring 3-Exploring Intuition
Exercise 3 affords you the opportunity to use the Focus 12 state for further exploration of your intuitive abilities. Hemi-Sync(r) sigş nals will assist you as you expand your consciousness far beyond the limitations of the five physical senses. Be prepared to express your intent to understand and know more fully who you are as an intuitive being as you connect with the source of your intuition. Ask for help in identifying any limiting beliefs or obstacles which may prevent you from knowing and trusting your intuitive self. You may then express your intent to release these limiting thoughts and beliefs. Be sure to express your gratitude for the trust and confidence you have gained in your intuitive self before returning to physical waking consciousness.

Exploring 4-lntro to Focus 15
From the now familiar Focus 12 you will be guided into another state of being, Focus 15, the state of"no time," where time does not exist for you. You can move into Focus 15 and return easily because your energy body is not limited or controlled by time and space. To enhance your familiarity with the state of"no time," you will return to Focus 12 and then be guided back to Focus 15 before returning to full waking consciousness.

Exploring  5-Mission 15Creation and  Manifestation Focus 15 is a state of stillness, a state of simply being. In Exercise 5, you will explore Focus 15 as a powerful state of creation and manifestation. From within the energy of Focus 15 you will be able to access the "ALL THAT IS" and know that your creative abilities are put into action through your intention. You will also learn a verbal cue that you may use whenever you desire to create a change or manifest what is needed in your life.

Exploring 6 -  Exploring Focus 15
By now you should be familiar with the stillness of Focus 15-the "no time" state-the state of simply being. Exercise 6, the culmiş nation of Wave V, presents you with a free flow opportunity for further exploration of this extraordinary state. You are given free reign to explore the nature of intuition, to experience the creative energy within you, or to commune with your true essence for guidş ance and inspiration.




12	13

Recommended reading:
Journeys Out Of The Body by Robert A. Monroe (Doubleday, 1971)
The undisputed classic on out-of-body experiences.
Unpredictably, and without willing it, Monroe, a pragmatic Virginia businessman, found himself leaving his physical body to travel via a "second body" to locales far removed from the physical and spiriş tual realities of his life. He was exploring a place unbounded by time or death.

Far Journeys by Robert A. Monroe (Doubleday, 1985)
This mesmerizing odyssey, written after a decade of intensive research, takes you even farther beyond the known dimensions of the physical universe. With great insight and wit, Monroe offers new awareness into the untapped resources and limitless possiş bilities of the human mind.

Ultimate Journey by Robert A. Monroe (Doubleday, 1994)
In a long-awaited sequel, Monroe explores the incredibly rewardş ing opportunities that lie beyond the limits of the physical world. He charts the route that opens to us when we leave our physical lives and takes the reader with him on an exhilarating journey that expands the limits of human experience.


Looking Ahead
Wave VI Odyssey (A Journey to Focus 21) guides you into an odyssey of self-discovery. Wave VI features high-adventure exercises in Focus 21 (the bridge to other energy systems). Explore realms of awareness that defy description in dimenş sions beyond physical time-space reality in this episode of the Gateway Experience.
Contact your local dealer or:
Monroe Products
P.O. Box 505
Lovingston, Virginia 22949
434-263-8692
800-541-2488
FAX: 434-263-8699
Interstate@Hemi-Sync.com www.Hemi-Sync.com

Many Gateway Experience enthusiasts become inspired to attend the residential programs made available by The Monroe Institute. If you have an interest in learning more about these programs, you may do so by visiting the Institute 's Web site at: www.monroeinstitute.org or by calling the Program Registrar at 434-361-1252 or (866) 881-3440 (toll-free).

14	15
