
cveloped by The NION

The Gateway  Experience(tm)
Wave II













Threshold

i




The Gateway Experience(tm)
Wave II-Threshold




Voiced by Robert A. Monroe









(c) 2001, Monroe Products, All Rights Reserved

Comments from Bob Monroe regarding the Gateway Experience

What can you expect from the Gateway Experience? As much or as little as you put into it. The exercises provide you with a set of tools-how you use them and what you do with them is your responsibility. Some disŁ cover themselves for the first time, and thus
live more completely, more constructively. Others reach levels of awareness so profound that only one such experience is enough for a lifetime. Still others become seekers after truth and add onŁ going adventure to their daily activity.

There is only one basis-that you seriously consider the Gateway Affirmation at the least a possibility: that you are more than your physical body, that you can and do exist in energy systems that are notlimited to time-space, that youcan and do communicate with intelligence beyond your physical consciousness-call it what you will.


The Gateway Affirmation
I am more than my physical body. Because I am more than physŁ ical matter, I deeply desire to Expand, to Experience; to Know, to Understand; to Control, to Use such greater energies and energy systems as may be beneficial and constructive to me and to those near and close to me. Also, I deeply desire the help and cooperation, the assistance, the understanding of those individŁ uals whose wisdom, development, and experience are equal or greater than my own.

What Is Hemi-Sync(r)?
Hemi-Sync(r) is a patented, scientifically and clinically proven audio-guidance technology developed by The Monroe Institute and refined with over 40 years of research. Researchers learned that specific sound patterns could lead the brain to various states of conŁ sciousness ranging from deep relaxation or sleep to expanded awareness and other "extraordinary" states.

The audio-guidance process works by sending different sounds (tones) to each ear with stereo headphones. The two hemispheres of the brain then act in unison to "hear" a third signal-the differŁ ence between the two tones. This is not an actual sound, but an electrical signal that canonly be perceived within the brain by both brain hemispheres working together. The result is a focused, whole-

brain state known as hemispheric synchronization, or "HemiŁ Sync(r)." Different Hemi-Sync(r) signals are used to facilitate deep relaxation, focused attention, or other desired states.

Music, verbal guidance, or subtle sound effects are combined with Hemi-Sync(r)signals to strengthen their effectiveness. These recordŁ ings contain no subliminal messages. You are always in control.

Cautions and Warnings: Please Read
The Gateway Experience is a system of training in self-exploŁ ration and personal development. It is not a form of psychotheraŁ py, philosophy, religion, or medical diagnosis I treatment. It is a means to acquire knowledge-the application and results thereof are solely the responsibility of the trainee.

DO NOT listen to these Hemi-Sync(r) exercises without first conŁ sulting your physician if you have a tendency toward seizures, audiŁ tmy disorders or adverse mental condition(s). In the unlikely event that you experience any unusual physical or mental discomfort, immediately discontinue use. DO NOT listen to Hcmi-Sync(r)audio products while driving or operating heavy equipment. Avoid using with other devices that may influence brainwave activity. DO NOT reproduce Hemi-Sync(r) audio products or use with Dolby(r) or other noise reduction systems. Doing so will diminish the effectiveness of

the Hemi-Sync(r)signals.
While many of our audio products contribute to wellness, they are not intended to replace medical diagnosis and treatment.

The Gateway Experience
Recommendations for Use
The Gateway Experience is an in-home training program for developing, exploring, and applying expanded states of awareness. Exercises in this series use specially blended Hemi-Sync(r) freŁ quencies combined with verbal guidance and subtle sound effects (or music) to guide you into focused, whole-brain states of conŁ sciousness.

You will be gently led from your physical waking state into deep relaxation then to those thresholds of consciousness where you may experience profound states of expanded awareness. While in such states, one has a broader range of perceptions available with which to solve problems, develop creativity or obtain guidance. You may use this expansion and integration of personal awareŁ ness to know and better understand your total self so you might enjoy a more fulfilling life.

Each album (Wave) in the Gateway Experience is progressive in nature, building directly on the tools and techniques from the pre-

vious album. Therefore, the albums must be used sequentially. Following are recommendations for listening to these exercises:

Ģ Locate a distraction-free environment where you can darken the room and remain undisturbed for the 30- to 45-minute exercises.
Ģ Listen using stereo headphones on a personal or home stereo system.
Ģ Adjust the volume to a level where you can barely hear the words. Otherwise, the verbal guidance may startle you following a period of silence.
Ģ Allow at least one hour after eating and avoid alcohol, drugs, or excessive caffeine, which may limit the effectiveness of the HemiŁ Sync(r)exercises.
Ģ Get comfortable. Use the bathroom before each exercise even if it seems unnecessary. Loosen any tight clothing and remove shoes, glasses, or contacts. Listen while lying down or seated with your head supported, whichever is more comfortable for you.
Ģ If you itch during an exercise, scratch. You will be able to move gently back into your pattern of relaxation.
Ģ There can be a metabolic drop as you enter an exercise, producŁ ing a perception of heat, motion, or pressure. Have a loose blanket handy, ready to pull up or throw off as needed.
Ģ 
Keep a journal to document the details of your experiences, such as date/time, body position, medication or unusual diet, mood/attiŁ tude, energy level, moon phase, or any other unusual circumstance.

Wave II-Threshold
Each Wave and each exercise of Gateway Experience builds directly on preceding techniques and information. Use of Threshold exercises before having completed Discovery is not recommended. As you work with this Wave, you may find it desirable to review the Frequently Asked Questions in the Discovery manual.

Focus(tm) 12-0verview
Thehigh energy state and expanded awareness of this focus level enable you to become more conscious of inner resources and guidŁ ance. As you continue to use what you learned in Focus 10, you may well find entirely new experiences.

Rarely is nonphysical energy perceived in the same way we perŁ ceive in our physical waking state. Be receptive to subtle nuances of kinesthetic, auditory, or visual experiences. You may sense a "knowing," a telepathic comprehension that canbe later translated into words. With trust, patience, and practice, you will learn to perŁ ceive more clearly. Sometimes this happens slowly, step by step; sometimes dramatically and suddenly, like water breaking


through a dam. Let go of preconceived notions about how these exercises "should" unfold for you. Place them in your Box at the beginning of an exercise or at any time they intrude. This opens you to a fuller and richer range of possibilities in your exploration.

Wave II Exercises
Threshold #I-Introduction to Focus 12
Simply relax as you are guided from familiar Focus 10 to Focus 12, and calmly observe any differences. Effort and analysis are counŁ terproductive. With repeated experience, the distinctions become more pronounced and you come to appreciate Focus 12 as a powŁ erful and empowering state which readily lends itself to a wide diversity of purposes.

Threshold #2-Problem Solving
Problem Solving begins your use of Focus 12 energy for its many practical applications. Place your question or problem in the cenŁ ter of your consciousness, however you perceive this. Then direct it outward to your total awareness, release it, and wait for the response.

Answers sometimes come during the exercise, and may come in many forms. Among other possibilities you may perceive symbols, abstract images, or colors; "hear" thoughts in your mind; sense

subtle changes in energy; experience chills, heat, or tingling; notice shifts in your feelings or level of emotional arousal; or sudŁ denly have a clear "knowing."

If answers do not come as you listen to the exercise, take it as an invitation to heighten your sensitivities as you move through your daily activities. Open your perception, for instance, to the converŁ sations of others, passages in books, synchronicities, and the mulŁ titude of wondrous ways in which guidance may reveal itself.

Problem solving in Focus 12 is facilitated by the sincerity of your desire to receive a response, the intensity of your emotion, and the clarity of your questions. Expressing gratitude as you release your question is also important. This acknowledges your trust in the process and amplifies the entire exercise.

Threshold #3-0ne Month Patterning
One Month Patterning is very powerful for taking charge of your life. Based on the principle that we become what we think, the enerŁ gy of Focus 12 offers this process a speed and intensity in the maniŁ festing of thought not generally available in ordinary consciousness. Think, feel or imagine the physical, mental or emotional pattern you desire in your life. Just as you did in the previous exercise, place it in the center of your consciousness and then release it. A

9

sense of ease and detachment about the pattern lets you know that you have, indeed, released it.

Be clear about what you want. For example, do you want a new house, or to be happy where you live? To lose 10 pounds or to feel better about yourself? Pattern only in the present tense, for examŁ ple, "I am now receiving..." Use "I" in your patterning statement and perceive yourself as an active part of the pattern. Pattern only for yourself.

Be specific; the more detail in your pattern, the more likely you are to get what you want. Ask only for what you really want, because you'll probably get exactly what you ask for. Put emotion and conviction into your practice to vitalize and strengthen your intention. Then ask that your pattern work only for the good of your total self and simply let go of attachment to the result.


Although a pattern set in Focus 12 can be changed or canceled in Focus 12, don't keep checking or changing it because of fear or doubt. You wouldn't dig up a seed to see how it's growing, would you? Start with small, reasonable patterns. If you pattern for $50 and prove to yourself it works, later patterns will come more easily.

Don't specify how your request will be fulfilled. Let your total self decide and direct the method. Though the exercise refers to "oneŁ month patterning," you can request that patterns be fulfilled in any time frame: a week, a year, by your birthday, etc. Or simply release the pattern to be fulfilled in its own time.

Threshold #4-Color Breathing
Color Breathing uses the resonance of colors to develop your ability in directing physical and nonphysical energy. Sound, vibraŁ tion, and other sensations are as valid as visualization for the mental perception of color. One man, blind since birth, experiŁ enced different colors as having unique textures.

The exercise guides you through learning to use the following colŁ ors: green for reducing excess or harmful emotional energy; red for increasing physical strength, speed and coordination; purple for restoring and normalizing your physical condition.

It's important to end this process each time you practice by perŁ ceiving your body as well, whole and perfect. You won't want to energize any condition less than the ideal. As you become familiar with this technique, feel free to experiment with other colors and to develop other purposes for yourself.


Threshold #5-Energy Bar Tool (EBT)
Energy Bar Tool is an extremely valuable and highly versatile tool for gathering and directing nonphysical energies. History and mythology abound with "power sticks" that link human and spiriŁ tual energies, ranging from the staff that Moses turned into a serŁ pent to the scepters that symbolize the power of kings and queens to the sabers of light that link the heroes of Star Wars to "The Force." While moving through the exercise, focus on finding or creating your own very personal EBT, one that shares your enerŁ gy and holds significance for you.

However vague your EBT may seem at first, continue practicing and allow it to develop. Your hands may become your EBT, rather than something external to you. You may sense the increasingly charged vibration throughout your body, or as localized, or as movŁ ing and spreading as intensity builds. Your EBT may become a roadway that leads you to further explorations. It can be used as a beacon to attract guidance or other intelligence, a vehicle for space travel, or a comforting symbol of safety and security. The forms and uses of your EBT are truly limitless. Practice and experiment, knowing that its power is reciprocal: as you recharge it, it recharges you. Keep your EBT where it is always available to you and creatively use it in your daily life as well as in your HemiŁ Sync exercises. As with all the tools you learn in the Gateway

Experience, it's up to you to take it out of the tool box and use it.

Threshold #6 -  Living Body Map (LBM)
Since maps are an objective representation of territory, the underŁ lying concept of the LBM supports the perspective and detachŁ ment useful in healing. You have undoubtedly recognized how the progressive nature of Gateway Experience uses previous learnŁ ing as your adventure proceeds. In this exercise for influencing physical body energy, you learn a new tool while using your EBT.

You are first verbally guided to create a white mental outline around your physical body. This "map" represents a composite of your entire physical system. Then you change the outline's color to red, representing blood circulation; then blue for your nervous system; yellow for the organs of your glandular system; orange for your muscle and bone structure. As the exercise proceeds, you learn to use the LBM to identify where healing energy is needed. Then, with your EBT, you are guided to direct purple healing energy to those parts of your physical body.

Remember that visualizing is not necessary for working with energy. To "think" or feel or sense a color or image is to create it. As you follow the instructions, consider this as an opportunity to "play" with the shape and form of your EBT. The verbal guidance

13

provides a structure, but you need not adhere to it in a rigid fashŁ ion. We encourage you to experiment and be creative with all the tools, to make them yours, to be open to fresh insight about what works best for you.

Looking Ahead
Wave III-Freedom is awaiting you as soon as your feel ready to move on. The exercises on Wave III give you a sense of ease and security as you delve further into nonphysical experience. You are introduced to the Continuum of Consciousness and methods for practicing OBEs and remote viewing. Happy adventures!

Contact your local dealer or: Monroe Products
P.O. Box 505
Lovingston, Virginia 22949
434-263-8692
800-541-2488
FAX: 434-263-8699
In terstate@Hemi-Sync.com www.Hemi-Sync.com

Many Gateway Experience enthusiasts become inspired to attend the residential programs made available by The Monroe Institute. If you have an interest in learning more about these proŁ grams, you may do so by visiting the Institute's Web site at: www.monroeinstitute.org or by calling the Program Registrar at 434-361-1252 or 866-881-3440 (toll free).

Recommended reading:

Journeys Out Of The Body by Robert A. Monroe (Doubleday, 1971)
The undisputed classic on out-of-body experiences. Unpredictably, and without willing it, Monroe, a pragmatic Virginia businessman, found himself leaving his physical body to travel via a "second body" to locales far removed from the physiŁ cal and spiritual realities of his life. He was exploring a place unbounded by time or death.

Far Journeys by Robert A. Monroe (Doubleday, 1985)
This mesmerizing odyssey, written after a decade of intensive research, takes you even farther beyond the known dimensions of the physical universe. With great insight and wit, Monroe offers new awareness into the untapped resources and limitless possibilities of the human mind.

Ultimate Journey by Robert A. Monroe (Doubleday, 1994)
In a long-awaited sequel, Monroe explores the incredibly rewarding opportunities that lie beyond the limits of the physiŁ cal world. He charts the route that opens to us when we leave our physical lives and takes the reader with him on an exhilaŁ rating journey that expands the limits of human experience.
















